a	indef art one
abacus	 n.frame with beads that slide along parallel rods, used for teaching numbers to children, and (in some countries) for counting
abandon	go away from (a person or thing or place) not intending to return; forsake; desert
abandonment	abandoning
abase	v. ~ oneself/sb lower oneself/sb in dignity; degrade oneself/sb ;
abash	to destroy the self-possession or self-confidence of:disconcert
abashed	adj. ~ embarrassed; ashamed
abate	v. make or become less
abattoir	 n. = slaughterhouse (slaughter)
abbess	 n. woman who is head of a convent or nunnery
abbey	buildingin which monks or nuns live as a community under an abbot or abbess
abbot	n. man who is head of a monastery or abbey
abbreviate	 v. ~ sth shorten (a word, phrase, etc), esp by omitting letters
abbreviation	abbreviating or being abbreviated
abdicate	resign from or formally renounce the throne
abdication	 giving up control, authority
abdomen	part of the body below the chest and diaphragm, containing the stomach, bowels and digestive organs
abdominal	adj. in, of or for the abdomen
abduct	 v. take away illegally, using force or deception; kidnap ;
abduction	A carrying away of a person against his will, or illegally.
abed	 In bed; on a bed.
aberrant	 adj. not following the normal or correct way
aberration	deviation from what is accepted as normal or right
abet	~ sb (in sth) help or encourage sb to commit an offence or do sth wrong
abeyance	 n. be in abeyance; fall/go into abeyance (of a right, rule, problem, etc) be suspended temporarily; not be in force or use for a time
abhor	v. feel hatred and disgust for (sb/sth); detest
abhorrence	 n. hatred and disgust
abhorrent	adj. ~ disgusting; hateful
abidance	 An abiding.
abide	(esp with can/could, in negative sentences or questions can/could) tolerate (sb/sth); endure; bear
abiding	adj. enduring; permanent
ability	capacity or power to do sth physical or mental
abject	wretched; hopeless
abjure	 v. promise or swear to give up (a claim, an opinion, a belief, etc); renounce formally
ablaze	burning; on fire
able	 adj. be ~ to do sth have the power, means or opportunity to do sth
able-bodied	adj. healthy, fit and strong
ablution	 n. (fml or joc ) ceremonial washing of the body, hands, sacred vessels, etc
ably	 adv. in an able manner
abnegate	 vt. to give up (rights or a claim, for example); renounce.
abnegation	denial or renunciation (of a doctrine)
abnormal	 adj. different, esp in an undesirable way, from what is normal, ordinary or expected
abnormally	 adv: abnormally large feet
aboard	 adv. part, prep on or into a ship, an aircraft, a train or a bus ,
abode	house; home
abolish	v. end the existence of
abolition	n. abolishing or being abolished
abolitionism	 principles or measures fostering abolition especially of slavery
abolitionist	 n. person who favours abolition, esp of capital punishment
abominable	~(fml ) causing disgust; detestable
abominate	v. feel hatred or disgust for (sth/sb); detest; loathe
abomination	feeling of disgust and extreme hatred
aboriginal	 adj. inhabiting a land from a very early period, esp before the arrival of colonists
aborigine	n. aboriginal inhabitant
abortive	 adj. coming to nothing; unsuccessful
abound	be very plentiful; exist in great numbers
about	a little more or less than; a little before or after; approximately .;
above	at or to a higher point; overhead
aboveboard	 be in a straightforward manner
abracadabra	n, interj meaningless word said as a supposedly magic formula esp by conjurors while performing magic tricks
abrade	 v. wear away by rubbing; scrape off
abraded	rubbed off/worn away by friction
abrasion	scraping or wearing away; rubbing off ;
abrasive	that scrapes or rubs sth away; rough
abreast	~ side by side (with sb/sth) and facing the same way
abridge	v. make shorter, esp by using fewer words; condense
abridgement	shortening of a book, etc ,
abridgment	 a shortened version of a written work
abroad	in or to a foreign country or countries; away from one's own country
abrogate	 v. cancel, repeal or annul (sth)
abrupt	sudden and unexpected
abruptly	 adv.
abscess	n. swollen part of the body in which a thick yellowish liquid has collected
abscission	 The act of cutting off, as in a surgical operation.
abscond	v. ~go away suddenly and secretly, esp in order to avoid arrest
absence	~ being away
absent	~ not present (at sth); at another place (than.)
absentee	 n. person who is absent
absenteeism	n. frequent absence from school or work, esp without good reason ,
absinth	[ absinthe: ] a potent green alcoholic drink, technically a gin, originally having high wormwood content
absinthe	 n. bitter green alcoholic drink made with wormwood and other herbs
absolute	complete; total
absolutely	completely
absolution	 n. formal declaration by a priest that a person's sins have been forgiven
absolve	v. ~ sb (fml esp law , ) clear sb (of guilt); declare sb free (from blame, a promise, a duty, etc)
absorb	take (sth) in; suck up
absorbed	 adj. with one's attention fully held
absorbent	n, adj that is able to take in moisture, etc
absorbing	adj. holding the attention fully
absorption	 n. ~ absorbing or being absorbed
abstain	keep oneself from doing or enjoying sth, esp from taking alcoholic drinks; refrain ;
abstemious	 adj. not taking much food or drink; not self-indulgent; moderate
abstention	 n. ~ (from sth) abstaining, esp not using one's vote at an election
abstinence	 n. ~ abstaining, esp from food or alcoholic drinks
abstinent	voluntary forbearance especially from indulgence of an appetite or craving or from eating some foods:ABSTENTION
abstract	existing in thought or as an idea but not having a physical or practical existence
abstracted	 adj. thinking of other things; not paying attention ;
abstraction	~ of sth removing; taking away ;
abstruse	 adj. difficult to understand
absurd	unreasonable; not sensible
absurdity	n.
abundance	n. quantity that is more than enough; plenty
abundant	more than enough; plentiful
abuse	make bad or wrong use of
abusive	adj. criticizing harshly and rudely; insulting
abut	 v. ~ on/against sth (of land or a building) have a common boundary or side with sth; adjoin sth
abysmal	extremely bad
abyss	n. hole so deep that it seems to have no bottom
acacia	 n. any of several trees with yellow or white flowers, esp one from which gum arabic is obtained ,
academic	of schools, colleges, etc
academician	n. member of an academy
academy	school for special training
accede	take office
accelerate	make move faster or happen earlier; increase the speed of
accelerating	 [ accelerate: ] to go, occur, or cause to go or occur more quickly; speed up
acceleration	making or being made quicker; increase in speed
accent	emphasis given to a syllable or word by means of stress or pitch
accentuate	 v. make very noticeable or prominent; emphasize
accept	take (sth offered) willingly
acceptable	worth accepting
acceptance	accepting or being accepted
access	~ means of approaching or entering (a place); way in
accessible	 adj. ~ that can be reached, used, etc
accession	n. ~ reaching a rank or position
accessory	thing that is a useful or decorative extra but that is not essential; minor fitting or attachment
accident	event that happens unexpectedly and causes damage, injury, etc
accidental	 adj. happening unexpectedly or by chance
acclaim	welcome (sb/sth) with shouts of approval; applaud loudly
acclaimed	welcomed with shouts and approval
acclamation	loud and enthusiastic approval
acclimate	to adapt to a new temperature, altitude, climate, environment, or situation
acclivity	n. upward slope
accolade	praise; approval
accommodate	provide lodging or room for
accommodating	adj. easy to deal with; willing to help; obliging
accommodation	(Brit) room(s), esp for living in; lodgings
accompaniment	thing that naturally or often goes with another thing
accompanist	n. person who plays a musical accompaniment
accompany	walk or travel with (sb) as a companion or helper; escort
accomplice	 n. person who helps another to do sth wicked or illegal
accomplish	succeed in doing (sth); complete successfully; achieve
accomplished	~ skilled
accomplishment	successful completion
accord	peace treaty; agreement
accordance	 n. in accordance with sth in agreement or harmony with sth
accordingly	in a manner that is suggested by what is known or has been said
accordion	n. portable musical instrument with a bellows, metal reeds and a keyboard .
accost	 v. approach and speak to (sb) boldly
account	statement of money paid or owed for goods or services
accountability	 [ accountable: ] responsible to someone or for some action; answerable
accountant	 n. person whose profession is to keep or inspect financial accounts
accoutre	 equip
accoutrement	 equipment worn by soldiers in addition to their clothing and weapons
accoutrements	n. equipment; trappings
accredit	~ sth to sb/~ sb with sth attribute to sb; credit sb with (a saying, etc)
accrete	v. to grow together; fuse; to grow or increase gradually, as by addition.
accretion	growth or increase by means of gradual additions
accrue	 v. ~ (from sth) come as a natural increase or advantage, esp financial; accumulate
accumulate	gradually get or gather together an increasing number or quantity of get (sth) in this way
accumulation	 n.
accuracy	 n. precision or exactness, esp resulting from careful effort
accurate	free from error
accurately	 adv.
accursed	hateful; detestable; annoying
accusation	accusing or being accused
accusatory	 adj. of or indicating an accusation
accuse	 v. ~ sb say that sb has done wrong, is guilty (of sth) or has broken the law
accused	the defendant or defendants appearing on a criminal charge
accuser	n.
accusingly	 adv. in an accusing manner
accustom	 v. ~ oneself/sb/sth to sth make oneself, etc used to sth
accustomed	usual; habitual
acerbic	(adj.) tasting sour; harsh in language or temper
acerbity	 Sourness of taste, character, or tone.
acetate	compound derived from acetic acid
acetic	 adj. of, containing, producing, or derived from acetic acid or vinegar
ache	 n. continuous dull pain
achievable	 adj. that can be achieved
achieve	gain or reach (sth), usu by effort, skill, courage, etc
achievement	action of achieving
achromatic	 designating color perceived to have zero saturation and therefore no hue, such as neutral grays, white, or black
acid	substance that contains hydrogen, which can be replaced by a metal to form a salt
acidic	 adj. of or like an acid
acidify	v. (cause sth to) become acid
acidity	n. state or quality of being acid
acidulous	adj. rather sharp or bitter in taste or manner
acknowledge	accept the truth of admit (sth)
acknowledgement	act of acknowledging
acknowledgment	 Recognition.
acme	 n. highest stage of development; point of perfection
acne	 n. inflammation of the oil-glands of the skin, producing red pimples on the face and neck
acolyte	person who helps a priest in certain church services
acorn	fruit of the oak-tree, with a cup-like base .
acoustic	of sound or the sense of hearing
acoustically	 adv. The hall is excellent acoustically
acoustics	qualities of a room, hall, etc that make it good or bad for carrying sound
acquaint	 v. ~ sb/oneself with sth make sb/oneself familiar with or aware of sth
acquaintance	~ with sth/sb knowledge of sth/sb
acquainted	~ with sth familiar with sth
acquiesce	v. ~ (fml ) accept sth without protest; offer no opposition (to a plan, conclusion, etc)
acquiescence	 submission; compliance
acquiescent	adj. ready to acquiesce
acquire	gain (sth) by one's own ability, efforts or behaviour
acquired	 [ acquire: ] to get or gain (something, such as an object, trait, or ability), esp. more or less permanently
acquisition	action of acquiring
acquisitive	adj. keen to acquire things, esp material possessions
acquit	~ sb (of sth) declare sb to be not guilty (of a crime, etc); free or clear sb (of blame, responsibility, etc)
acquittal	judgement that a person is not guilty of the crime with which he has been charged
acquittance	Release or discharge from indebtedness, obligation, or responsibility.
acre	measure of land, 4840 square yards or about 4050 square metres 48404050
acreage	n. area of land measured in acres
acrid	having a strongly bitter smell or taste
acrimonious	adj. bitter
acrimony	 n. bitterness of manner or words
acrobat	n. person, esp at a circus, who performs difficult or unusual physical acts
acrobatic	adj. of or like an acrobat
acronym	n. word formed from the initial letters of a group of words
acrophobia	 "acro'phobic adjectiv
across	from one side to the other side
act	thing done; deed
actability	 [ act: ] something done or performed; a deed
acting	 n. performing parts in plays, films, TV, etc
action	process of doing sth; using energy or influence; activity
actionable	 adj. giving sufficient cause for a lawsuit
activate	make active
active	(in the habit of) doing things; energetic
actively	* Your proposal is being actively considered
activity	being active or lively
actor	n. person who acts on the stage, on TV or in films
actress	n. woman actor
actual	 adj. existing in fact; real
actuality	actual existence; reality ;
actually	really; in fact
actuarial	calculating; pertaining to insurance statistics
actuary	n. expert who calculates insurance risks and premiums
actuate	make (a machine, an electrical device, etc) move or work; make (a process) begin , ;
acuity	 n. (esp of thought or the senses) sharpness; acuteness
acumen	 n. ability to understand and judge things quickly and clearly; shrewdness
acute	very great; severe
ad	 ,AD 5`5, 55
ad lib	 adj. (esp of speaking and performing in public) without preparation; spontaneous
adage	n. traditional saying; proverb ;
adagio	 adj. adv in slow time; slowly and gracefully ;
adamant	adj. firmly or stubbornly determined; unwilling to be persuaded
adapt	~ sth (for sth) make sth suitable for a new use, situation, etc; modify sth
adaptability	 n.
adaptable	adj. (approv ) able to adapt oneself/itself
adaptation	 n. ~ (for/to sth) (esp biology ) action or process of adapting or being adapted
adaptive	to adjust (someone or something, esp. oneself) to different conditions, a new environment, etc.
add	~ sth put sth together with sth else so as to increase the size, number, amount, etc
addendum	thing that is to be added
addict	person who is unable to stop taking drugs, alcohol, etc
addicted	unable to stop taking or using sth as a habit
addiction	n. ~ condition of taking drugs, etc habitually and being unable to stop doing so without suffering adverse effects
addictive	adj. causing addiction
addition	adding, esp calculating the total of two or more numbers
additional	 adj. added; extra; supplementary
additive	 n. substance added in small amounts for a special purpose
addle	confuse (sth/sb); muddle
addled	 (adj.) rotten
addling	[ addle: ] to make or become confused or muddled
address	details of where a person lives, works or can be found, and where letters, etc may be delivered
adduce	 v. put (sth) forward as an example or as proof
adept	adj. ~ ~ (at/in doing sth) expert or skilful in (doing) sth
adequacy	 n. adequately
adequate	 adj. ~ satisfactory in quantity or quality; sufficient
adequately	noun 'adequately
adhere	~ (to sth) remain attached (to sth); stick (as if) by means of glue or suction
adherence	n. ~ (to sth)
adherent	 n. supporter of a party or doctrine
adhesion	~ being or becoming attached (to sth)
adhesive	 adj. that can adhere; causing things to adhere; sticky
adieu	Good-by; farewell.
adipose	adj. of animal fat; fatty
adjacency	The state of being adjacent.
adjacent	also immediately preceding or following
adjective	n. word that indicates a quality of the person or thing referred to by a noun
adjoin	 v. be next or nearest to and joined with
adjourn	stop (a meeting, etc) for a time; postpone
adjudge	(also adjudicate) declare officially or decide by law
adjudicate	act as judge in a court, tribunal, contest, etc
adjudication	 n.
adjudicator	n. judge, esp in a competition ,
adjunct	~ thing that is added or attached to sth else but is less important and not essential
adjuration	 solemn urging
adjure	 v. command or request (sb) earnestly or solemnly
adjust	put (sth) into the correct order or position; arrange
adjustable	 adj. that can be adjusted
adjusted	 [ adjust: ] vt. to alter slightly, esp. to achieve accuracy;
adjustment	 n. adjusting
adjutant	 n. army officer responsible for administrative work in a battalion
ad-lib	 with little or no preparation or forethought
administer	~ sth (to sb) (fml ) hand out or give sth formally; provide
administrate	 v. to administer
administration	~ administering; giving
administrative	 adj. of or involving the management of public or business affairs
administrator	n. person responsible for managing (esp business) affairs
admirable	adj. deserving or causing admiration; excellent
admiration	feeling of respect, warm approval or pleasure
admire	~ sb/sth (for sth) regard sb/sth with respect, pleasure, satisfaction, etc ,
admirer	[ admire: ] to regard with esteem, respect, approval, or pleased surprise
admiring	 adj. showing or feeling admiration
admissible	that can be allowed
admission	~ entering or being allowed to enter a building, society, school, etc
admit	~ sb/sth (into/to sth) allow sb/sth to enter
admittance	 n. allowing sb or being allowed to enter (esp a private place); right of entry
admonish	 to express warning or disapproval to especially in a gentle, earnest, or solicitous manner
admonition	 warning
admonitory	 containing warning
ado	n. trouble; fuss; unnecessary activity
adobe	brick made of clay and straw and dried in the sun
adolescence	n. time in a person's life between childhood and mature adulthood
adolescent	 adj. of or typical of adolescence
adopt	~ sb take sb into one's family, esp as one's child or heir
adoption	 n. adopting or being adopted
adorable	 adj. very attractive; delightful; lovable
adoration	n. great love or worship
adore	love deeply and respect (sb) highly
adorn	v. ~ sth/sb/oneself add beauty or ornament to sth/sb/oneself
adornment	act of adorning
adrenalin	n. hormone produced by the adrenal glands that increases the heart rate and stimulates the nervous system, causing a feeling of excitement
adrift	(esp of a boat) driven by wind and water and out of control; drifting
adroit	 adj. ~ skilful; clever
adroitly	 adv.
adroitness	 n.
adulate	to flatter or admire excessively or slavishly
adulation	n. excessive admiration or praise; flattery
adult	grown to full size or strength
adulterant	 An adulterating substance.
adulterate	 v. make poorer in quality by adding another substance
adulterated	[ adulterate: ] vt. to debase by adding inferior material
adulteration	 making unpure, poorer in quality
adultery	 n. voluntary sexual intercourse between a married person and sb who is not that person's husband or wife
adulthood	n. state of being adult
adumbrate	indicate (sth) faintly or in outline
advance	forward movement
advanced	 being ahead in development, knowledge, progress, etc.
advantage	~ (over sb) condition or circumstance that gives one superiority or success (esp when competing with others)
advantageous	 adj. ~ profitable; beneficial ;
Advent	the ~ of sth/sb the approach or arrival of
adventitious	 adj. not planned; accidental
adventure	unusual, exciting or dangerous experience or undertaking
adventurous	eager for or fond of adventure
adverb	 n. word that adds more information about place, time, circumstance, manner, cause, degree, etc to a verb, an adjective, a phrase or another adverb
adversary	n. opponent in a contest; enemy
adverse	not favourable; contrary
adversity	unfavourable conditions; trouble
advert	 n. = advertisement
advertise	make generally or publicly known
advertisement	action of advertising
advertiser	 n. person who advertises
advice	opinion given about what to do or how to behave
advisable	adj. worth recommending as a course of action; sensible
advise	 v. ~ against sth/doing sth; ~ sb (on sth) give advice to sb; recommend
advisory	 adj. having the power to advise; giving advice
advocacy	~ giving of support (to a cause, etc)
advocate	 v. speak publicly in favour of (sth); recommend; support
aegis	n. under the aegis of sb/sth with the protection or support of sb/sth, esp a public institution
aeon	 n. period of time so long that it cannot be measured
aerate	add carbon dioxide to under pressure
aerial	 n. one or more wires or rods for sending or receiving radio waves .
aerie	= eyrie
aeronaut	 One who navigates the air, a balloonist.
aeronautics	n. scientific study or practice of flying and navigating aircraft
aeroplane	n. aircraft that is heavier than air, with wings and one or more engines
aerospace	the earth's atmosphere and the space beyond it
aerostat	 A balloon or other apparatus floating in or sustained by the air.
aerostatics	The branch of pneumatics that treats of the equilibrium, pressure, and mechanical properties.
aesthete	 person who has or claims to have a fine appreciation of art and beauty
aesthetic	concerned with beauty and the appreciation of beauty
aesthetically	adv: aesthetically pleasing
aesthetics	 n. branch of philosophy dealing with the principles of beauty and artistic taste
affability	 n.
affable	polite and friendly
affair	thing done; concern; matter
affect	have an influence on (sb/sth); produce an effect on
affectation	unnatural behaviour, manner of speaking, etc, intended to impress others
affected	 adj. not natural or genuine; pretended; artificial
affection	~ feeling of fondness; love
affectionate	 adj. ~ showing fondness (for sb); loving
affidavit	n. written statement that can be used as evidence in court, made by sb who swears that it is true
affiliate	to bring or receive into close connection as a member or branch
affiliation	affiliating or being affiliated
affinity	~ ~ (between A and B) structural resemblance or similarity of character; relationship
affirm	~ sth state sth as the truth; assert sth
affirmation	affirming
affirmative	adj. expressing agreement; indicating `yes'
affix	stick, fasten or attach sth
afflict	b:TROUBLE, INJURE
affliction	pain; suffering; distress
affluence	n. abundance of money, goods or property; wealth
affluent	 adj. rich; prosperous
afford	 have enough money, time, space, etc for (a specified purpose)
affordable	to be able to do or spare something, esp. without incurring financial difficulties or without risk of undesirable consequences
affray	 n. (fml or law ) disturbance of the peace caused by fighting or rioting in a public place
affront	n. ~ (to sb/sth) deliberately insulting or disrespectful remark, action, etc, esp in public
affronted	[ affront: ] a deliberate insult
aficionado	 n. (Spanish ) person who is very enthusiastic about a particular sport or pastime
afire	& adj. On fire, literally or figuratively.
afloat	floating in water or air
afoot	adj. being prepared or progressing
aforesaid	Said in a preceding part or before.
afraid	 adj. ~ (of sb/sth); ~ (of doing sth/to do sth) frightened
afresh	 adv. again, esp from the very beginning
Africa	 the second largest of the continents, on the Mediterranean in the north, the Atlantic in the west, and the Red Sea, Gulf of Aden, and Indian Ocean in the east. The Sahara desert divides the continent unequally into North Africa
African	adj. of Africa or its people or languages
after	later
afterlife	n. existence that is thought by some to follow death
aftermath	the consequences of an event (especially a catastrophic event) ; the outcome of an event especially as relative to an individual
afternoon	n. time from midday or lunch-time to about 6 pm or sunset
afterthought	 n. thing that is thought of or added later
afterward	[ afterwards: ] afterward
afterwards	 adv. at a later time
again	once more; another time
against	in opposition to
agape	adj. ~ (of the mouth) wide open, esp with wonder
agate	n. type of very hard semiprecious stone with bands or patches of colour
age	length of time that a person has lived or a thing has existed
ageing	process of growing old
agency	business or place of business providing a (usu specified) service
agenda	 n. matters of business to be discussed at a meeting, etc
agent	person who acts for, or manages the affairs of, other people in business, politics, etc
agglomerate	v. become collected into a mass
agglomeration	action of agglomerating
agglutinate	v. join together as with glue; combine ;
aggrandize	 to make appear great or greater:praise highly
aggravate	make worse or more serious
aggravating	adj. irritating; annoying
aggravation	making more serious; irritation ;
aggregate	~ sb (fml ) be formed or bring sb into an assembled group or amount
aggregation	n.
aggress	To make the first attack.
aggression	unprovoked attacking or hostility by one country against another
aggressive	(of people or animals) apt or ready to attack; offensive; quarrelsome
aggrieve	 to give pain or trouble to:DISTRESS
aggrieved	adj. ~ made to feel resentful (because of unfair treatment, etc)
aghast	 adj. ~ filled with horror or amazement
agile	adj. able to move quickly and easily; active; nimble
agility	nimbleness
agitate	cause anxiety to (a person, his feelings, etc); disturb; excite
agitated	 adj. troubled or excited
agitation	disturbed state of mind or feelings; anxiety
aglow	adv, adj glowing; shining with warmth and colour
agnostic	 n. person who believes that nothing can be known about the existence of God or of anything except material things
ago	adv. gone by; in the past
agog	 adj. eager; excited
agonize	to suffer or cause to suffer agony
agonized	 [ agonize: ] to suffer or cause to suffer agony
agony	extreme mental or physical suffering
agrarian	 adj. of land
agree	~ say `yes'; say that one is willing; consent (to sth)
agreeable	pleasing; giving pleasure
agreeably	adv. pleasantly
agreement	arrangement, promise or contract made with sb
agricultural	 adj. agricultural land, workers, machinery
agriculture	n. science or practice of cultivating the land and rearing animals; farming ;
agronomist	 n.
agronomy	 n. science of controlling the soil to produce crops
ahead	adv. ~ further forward in space or time
aid	help
aide	= aide-de-camp
aide-de-camp	ADC) naval or military officer who acts as assistant to a senior officer
ail	v. trouble (sb) in body or mind (used esp as in the expression shown)
ailment	n. illness, esp a slight one
aim	~ (sth) (at sth/sb) point or direct (a weapon, blow, missile, etc) towards an object
aimless	adj. having no purpose
air	mixture of gases surrounding the earth and breathed by all land animals and plants
air hostess	stewardess in a passenger aircraft
airborne	 adj. transported by the air
aircraft	 n. any machine or structure that can fly in the air and is regarded as a vehicle or carrier
airfield	 n. area of open level ground equipped with hangars and runways for aircraft
airily	 adv. in a carefree light-hearted manner
airless	not having enough fresh air; stuffy
airline	n. company or service providing regular flights for public use
airmail	n. mail carried by air
airplane	 n. = aeroplane
airport	n. large area where civil aircraft land and take off, usu with facilities for passengers and goods, and customs
airtight	 adj. not allowing air to enter or escape
airy	having plenty of fresh air moving about; well-ventilated
aisle	side passage in a church that is divided by a row of pillars from the nave
ajar	 adj. slightly open
akin	 adj. ~ similar; related
alabaster	n. soft stone, like marble in appearance, often carved to make ornaments ,
alacrity	 n. prompt and eager readiness
alarm	warning sound or signal
alarmed	[ alarm: ] to fill with apprehension, anxiety, or fear
alarmingly	 [ alarm: ] to fill with apprehension, anxiety, or fear
alas	 interj (expressing sorrow or regret )
albatross	n. large white sea-bird with long wings, common in the Pacific and Southern Oceans ,
albeit	 conj although
albino	 n. person or animal born with no colouring pigment in the skin and hair (which are white) and the eyes (which are pink)
album	book in which a collection of photographs, autographs, postage stamps, etc can be kept ,
alchemist	n. person who studied or practised alchemy
alchemy	n. medieval form of chemistry, the chief aim of which was to discover how to turn ordinary metals into gold ,
alcohol	colourless liquid that can cause drunkenness, contained in drinks such as beer, wine, brandy and whisky
alcoholism	 n. continual heavy drinking of alcohol
alcove	 n. small space in a room, etc formed by part of the wall being set back; recess
alder	n. tree of the birch family, usu growing in marshy places ,
alderman	(Brit) (esp formerly) member of a county or borough council, next in rank below the mayor
alert	adj. ~ attentive and quick to think or act
alertness	n. xxxxx
alfresco	 adj. adv in the open air
algae	n. very simple plants with no true stems or leaves, found chiefly in water
algebra	n. branch of mathematics in which letters and symbols are used to represent quantities
alias	n. name by which a person is called at other times or in other places; false name
alibi	formal statement or evidence that a person was in another place at the time of a crime
alien	person who is not a naturalized citizen of the country in which he is living
alienable	Capable of being aliened or alienated, as lands.
alienate	~ sb cause sb to become unfriendly or indifferent; estrange sb
alienated	[ alienate: ] to cause (a friend, sympathizer, etc.) to become indifferent, unfriendly, or hostile; estrange
alienation	 n. ~ alienating or being alienated; estrangement
alight	 adj. on fire; lit
align	~ sth (with sth) place or arrange (a thing or things) in a straight line
alignment	arrangement in a straight line
alike	adj. like one another; similar
aliment	That which nourishes.
alimentary	 adj. of food and digestion
alimony	n. allowance that a court may order a man to pay to his wife or former wife before or after a legal separation or divorce
alive	living; not dead
alkali	 n. any of a class of substances (eg caustic soda and ammonia) that neutralize acids and form caustic or corrosive solutions in water
alkaline	 adj. alkaline soil
all	the whole number of
all but	almost
allay	v. make (sth) less; relieve
allegation	act of alleging
allege	 v. state (sth) as a fact but without proof; give as an argument or excuse
alleged	adj. stated without being proved
allegiance	 n. ~ (to sb/sth) support of or loyalty to a government, ruler, cause, etc
allegory	 n. story, painting or description in which the characters and events are meant as symbols of purity, truth, patience, etc ,
allegro	adj. adv in quick time; fast and lively ;
allergic	~ having an allergy
allergy	n. ~ medical condition that produces an unfavourable reaction to certain foods, pollens, insect bites, etc
alleviate	v. make less severe; ease
alley	narrow passage, esp between or behind houses or other buildings, usu for pedestrians only
alliance	action or state of being joined or associated
allied	 => ally
alligator	reptile of the crocodile family found esp in the rivers and lakes of tropical America and China
alliterate	 the repetition of usually initial consonant sounds in two or more neighboring words or syllables
alliteration	as thick as thieves
allocate	 v. ~ sth allot or assign sth (to sb/sth) for a special purpose
allocation	action of allocating
allopathy	adj. "allo'pathically adve
allot	v. ~ sth (to sb/sth) give (time, money, duties, etc) as a share of what is available; apportion sth
allotment	action of allotting
allow	permit (sb/sth) to do sth
allowance	amount of sth, esp money, allowed or given regularly
alloy	metal formed of a mixture of metals or of metal and another substance
all-star	 adj. including many famous actors
allude	~ to sb/sth (fml ) mention sb/sth briefly or indirectly
allure	 v. tempt or attract (sb) by the expectation of gaining sth
allurement	 n.
alluring	 adj. attractive; charming
allusion	 n. ~ indirect reference
allusive	containing allusions
allusiveness	 [ allusive: ] adj. containing or full of allusions
alluvial	 adj. made of sand, earth, etc left by rivers or floods, esp in a delta
alluvion	 Flood.
ally	 v. ~ (sb/oneself) with/to sb/sth join or become joined with sb/sth by treaty, marriage, etc
almanac	annual book or calendar of months and days, giving information about the sun, moon, tides, anniversaries, etc ,
almond	type of tree related to the plum and peach
almost	nearly; not quite
alms	 n. money, clothes, food, etc given to poor people
aloft	up in the air; overhead
alone	without any companions
along	from one end to or towards the other end of
alongside	adv. close to the side of a ship, pier, etc
aloof	adj. ~ cool and remote in character; unconcerned
aloofness	n.
aloud	in a voice loud enough to be heard, not silently or in a whisper
alphabet	 n. set of letters or symbols in a fixed order, used when writing a language
alphabetical	 adj. in the order of the alphabet
alphabetically	 adv: books arranged alphabetically by author
Alpine	 adj. of or found in high mountains, esp the Alps
already	before now or before a stated or suggested time in the past
also	 adv. in addition; besides; too
altar	table on which bread and wine are consecrated in the Communion service .
alter	become different; change in character, position, size, shape, etc
alterable	adj. that can be altered
alteration	changing; making a change
altercate	To contend angrily or zealously in words.
altercation	n. (act of) quarrelling or arguing noisily
altered	[ alter: ] to make or become different in some respect; change
alternate	happening or following one after the other
alternative	available in place of sth else; other
although	in spite of the fact that; even if
altimeter	n. instrument used esp in aircraft for showing the height above sea-level
altitude	height above sea-level
alto	(singer with a) voice of the highest adult male pitch
altogether	entirely, completely
altruism	 n. principle of considering the welfare and happiness of others before one's own; unselfishness ;
altruist	 n. unselfish person
altruistic	 (adj.) unselfish
aluminium	n. chemical element, a light silvery metal, not tarnished by air, used either pure or as an alloy for making cooking utensils, electrical apparatus, etc
aluminum	etc. Symbol: Al; atomic no.: 13
alumnus	n. (US) male former student of a school, college or university
always	at all times; without exception
amalgam	alloy of mercury with another metal
amalgamate	 v. ~ (with sb/sth) (cause people or things to) combine or unite
amalgamated	[ amalgamate: ] to combine or cause to combine; unite
amass	v. gather together or collect (sth), esp in large quantities
amateur	person who practises a sport or artistic skill without receiving money for it
amateurish	 adj. inexpert; unskilled ;
amatory	adj. relating to or inspired by sexual love
amaze	v. fill with great surprise or wonder
amazon	tall strong athletic woman
ambassador	diplomat sent from one country to another either as a permanent representative or on a special mission
ambidextrous	 adj. able to use the left hand or the right hand equally well
ambience	 n. environment; atmosphere of a place
ambient	adj. (of air, etc) on all sides; surrounding ,
ambiguity	n. presence of more than one meaning
ambiguous	having more than one possible meaning
ambit	n. bounds, scope or extent ,
ambition	strong desire to achieve sth
ambitious	~ ~ (for sth) full of ambition, esp for success or money
ambivalence	the state of having contradictory or conflicting emotional attitudes
ambivalent	 adj. having or showing mixed feelings about a certain object, person or situation
amble	ride or walk at a slow, leisurely pace
ambrosia	food of the gods
ambrosial	suggestive of ambrosia; fragrant or delicious
ambulance	n. vehicle equipped to carry sick or injured people to hospital, etc
ambulate	 To walk about
ambulatory	 walking
ambush	waiting in a hidden position to make a surprise attack
ambushed	 [ ambush: ] the act of waiting in a concealed position in order to launch a surprise attack
ameliorate	 v. (cause sth to) become better
amelioration	 n.
amenable	~ (of people) willing to be influenced or controlled (by sth)
amend	correct an error in (sth); make minor improvements in; change slightly
amendment	~ minor alteration or addition to a document, etc
amenities	a useful or pleasant facility or service
amenity	feature or facility of a place that makes life there easy or pleasant
America	short for the: United States of America
American	 adj. of N or S America, esp the USA
Americanism	n. word or phrase used in American English but not in standard English in Britain
amethyst	 n. purple or violet precious stone
amiability	 n.
amiable	adj. showing and inspiring friendliness; pleasant and good-tempered
amicability	n. amicably
amicable	 adj. showing friendliness; without hostility
amid	 prep in the middle of (sth); among .;
amiss	wrong(ly); inappropriate(ly)
amity	n. friendly relationship between people or countries
ammeter	n. instrument that measures electric current in amperes
ammonia	colourless gas with a strong smell, used in refrigerators and for making explosives
amnesia	n. partial or total loss of memory
amnesty	n. general pardon, esp for offences against the State
amok	 adv. run amok rush about in a wild and angry frenzy
among	surrounded by (sb/sth) .
amongst	prep. =among,surrounded by
amoral	 adj. not based on moral standards; not following any moral rules ;
amorous	adj. readily showing or feeling love; relating to love
amorphous	adj. having no definite shape or form; not organized
amorphousness	[ amorphous: ] lacking a definite shape; formless
amortize	 end (a debt) by setting aside money
amount	 v. ~ to sth add up to or total sth
amour	n. (esp secret) love affair
ampere	 n. unit for measuring electric current .
ampersand	`and'
amphibian	animal able to live both on land and in water
amphibious	living or operating both on land and in water
amphitheater	 oval building with tiers of seats
ample	enough
amplification	n.
amplified	[ amplify: ] vt. to increase in size, extent, effect, etc., as by the addition of extra material; augment; enlarge; expand
amplifier	n. device for amplifying
amplify	increase (sth) in size or strength
amplitude	breadth; largeness; abundance ;
amply	adv: amply fed, furnished, provided for, rewarded ,
amputate	 v. cut off by surgical operation
amulet	 n. piece of jewellery, etc worn as a charm1(
amuse	make laugh or smile
amused	 [ amuse: ] to keep pleasantly occupied; entertain; divert
amusement	thing that makes time pass pleasantly
amusing	adj. causing laughter or smiles; enjoyable
anachronism	mistake of placing sth in the wrong historical period
anachronistic	adj.
anaerobic	adj. living, active, occurring, or existing in the absence of free oxygen
anagram	n. word or phrase made by rearranging the letters of another word or phrase
analgesia	n. loss of ability to feel pain while still conscious
analgesic	adj. n substance that relieves pain
analogous	adj. ~ partially similar or parallel; offering an analogy
analogue	 n. thing that is similar to another thing
analogy	~ partial similarity between two things that are compared
analyse	separate into its parts in order to study its nature or structure
analysis	 n. study of sth by examining its parts and their relationship
analyst	person skilled in making analyses
analytic	adjs of or using analysis ;
analytical	 [ analytic: ] relating to analysis
analyze	To examine minutely or critically.
anarchic	adjs
anarchist	n. person who believes in anarchism
anarchy	absence of government or control in society; lawlessness
anathema	detested person or thing
anathematize	 declare to be evil or anathema
anatomical	 adj.
anatomy	scientific study of the structure of animal bodies
ancestor	any of the people from whom sb is descended, esp those more remote than his grandparents; forefather
ancestral	adj. belonging to or inherited from one's ancestors
ancestry	 n. line of ancestors
anchor	heavy metal device attached to a rope, chain, etc and used to moor a ship or boat to the sea-bottom or a balloon to the ground
anchorite	n. hermit or religious recluse
ancient	belonging to times long past
ancillary	adj. ~ helping in a subsidiary way
and	also; in addition to
andiron	n. iron support for holding logs in a fireplace
anecdotal	adj. anecdotal memoirs
anecdote	 n. short, interesting or amusing story about a real person or event ,
anemia	 condition in which blood lacks red corpuscles
anemic	 lacking force, vitality, or spirit
anemometer	 n. instrument for measuring the force of the wind
anesthesia	 = anaesthesia, anaesthetic
anesthetic	 = anaesthesia, anaesthetic
anew	 adv. in a new or different way; again
angel	messenger or attendant of God
angelic	adj. of or like an angel
angelically	adv: The children behaved angelically
anger	strong feeling of displeasure and hostility
angle	space between two lines or surfaces that meet
Anglophobe	 n. person who hates or fears England or English things
Anglophobia	n. hatred or fear of England or English things
Anglo-Saxon	person of English descent
angry	adj. ~ (with sb) (at/about sth) filled with anger
angst	n. feeling of anxiety, guilt or remorse, esp about the state of the world ,
anguish	n. severe physical or mental pain
anguished	adj. feeling or expressing anguish
angular	having angles or sharp corners
angularity	 n.
anhydrous	free from water and especially water of crystallization
animadversion	n. criticism
animadvert	 v. ~ (fml ) make (esp critical) remarks about sb/sth
animal	living thing that can feel and move voluntarily
animalcule	 n. microscopically small animal
animate	adj. living; having life
animated	lively
animatedly	 [ animated: ] full of vivacity and spirit; lively
animation	liveliness; vivacity
animosity	n. ~ ~ (between A and B) (instance of) strong dislike or of hostility
animus	animosity shown in speech or action
ankle	joint connecting the foot with the leg
annalist	 n. person who writes annals
annals	 n. story of events year by year; historical records
anneal	 v. make tough by cooling slowly after heating
annex	take possession of
annexation	 n. act of annexing
annihilate	 v. destroy completely
annihilation	 n. complete destruction
anniversary	n. yearly return of the date of an event; celebration of this
annotate	 v. add notes to giving explanation or comment
annotated	[ annotate: ] 'anno"tatable adjective
annotation	action or process of annotating
announce	make known publicly
announced	[ announce: ] v. to make known publicly; proclaim
announcement	 n. statement in spoken or written form that makes sth known
announcer	n. person who announces speakers, singers, programmes, etc, esp on radio or TV ,
annoy	cause slight anger to (sb); irritate
annoyance	being annoyed
annoyed	adj. ~ (at/about sth); ~ (that.../to do sth) rather angry
annoying	 adj. causing slight anger or irritation
annual	happening every year
annually	 adv: The exhibition is held annually
annuity	fixed sum of money paid to sb yearly, usu for the remaining part of his lifetime
annul	v. declare (sth) no longer valid; abolish; cancel
annunciation	 n. the Annunciation (festival held on 25 March to commemorate) the announcement to Mary that she was to be the mother of Christ , ; 325
anode	positive electrode by which an electric current enters a device
anodize	to coat (a metal, such as aluminium or magnesium) with a protective oxide film by electrolysi
anodyne	that can relieve pain
anoint	~ sb apply oil or ointment to sb (esp as a religious ceremony)
anomalous	adj. different from what is normal; irregular
anomaly	n. anomalous thing; irregularity
anonymity	n. state of being anonymous
anonymous	with a name that is not known or not made public
anorexia	loss of the wish to eat
another	an additional
answer	 n. ~ thing said, written or done as a response or reaction; reply
ant	any of several types of very small insect that live in highly organized groups and work very hard
antagonism	 n~ ~ (between A and B) (instance of) active opposition or hostility, esp between two people
antagonist	 n. person who actively opposes sb/sth; adversary ;
antagonistic	 adj. ~ showing or feeling antagonism; hostile
antagonize	 to incur or provoke the hostility of
antarctic	adj. of the regions around the South Pole .
ante	 n. stake in poker2, etc that a player must make before receiving new cards
antecede	 be earlier in time; go back further
antecedence	n. priority
antecedent	thing or circumstance that is or comes before another
antecedents	ancestr
antechamber	n. = ante-room
antedate	put an earlier date on than the one at the time of writing
antediluvian	of the time before Noah's Flood
antenatal	adj. existing or occurring before birth; pre-natal
antenna	n. either of a pair of flexible sensitive organs on the heads of insects, crustaceans, etc; feeler
anterior	 adj. coming before in position or time; nearer the front ;
anteroom	 A room situated before and opening into another, usually larger.
anthem	 n. short musical composition, usu for a choir and an organ, to be sung in religious services, often with words taken from the Bible ,
anthology	n. collection of poems or pieces of prose on the same subject or by the same writer
anthracite	 n. very hard form of coal that burns with little smoke or flame
anthropoid	 adj. man-like in form
anthropologist	 n. student of or expert in anthropology
anthropology	 n. study of mankind, esp of its origins, development, customs and beliefs ,
anthropomorphic	adj. treating gods, animals, etc as human in form and personality ,
antibiotic	 n, adj that can destroy or prevent the growth of bacteria ,
antibiotics	[ antibiotic: ] any of various chemical substances, such as penicillin, streptomycin, neomycin, and tetracycline, produced by various microorganisms, esp. fungi, or made synthetically and capable of destroying or inhibiting the growth of microorganisms
antibody	 n. substance formed in the blood in response to harmful bacteria, etc, which it then attacks and destroys
antic	n. absurd or exaggerated movement or behaviour intended to amuse people
Antichrist	 Any opponent or enemy of Christ, whether a person or a power.
anticipate	expect
anticipated	[ anticipate: ] v. to foresee and act in advance of
anticipation	 the act of anticipating; expectation, premonition, or foresight
anticipatory	 adj. (fml )
anticlimax	 n. disappointing end to a series of events which had seemed likely to become more interesting, exciting or impressive
antics	absurd or grotesque acts or posture
anticyclone	n. area in which atmospheric pressure is high, producing fine and settled weather, with an outward flow of air
antidote	substance that acts against the effects of a poison or disease
antifreeze	 n. substance added to water to lower its freezing point, eg as used in the radiator of a motor vehicle ,
antigen	n. substance which, when it is put into the body, causes it to produce antibodies
antihistamine	n. any of a variety of drugs used to treat allergies
antipathy	settled aversion or dislike:DISTASTE
antiphon	 A response or alteration of responses, generally musical.
antiphony	An anthem or other composition sung responsively.
antipode	 the exact or direct opposit
Antipodes	places on opposite sides of the earth to each other
antiquarian	adj. of, for or concerning the study, collection or sale of antiques, esp old or rare books
antiquary	n. person who studies, collects or sells antiques ,
antiquate	To make old or out of date.
antiquated	(of things) out of date, obsolete ,
antique	belonging to the distant past
antiquity	ancient times, esp before the Middle Ages
antiseptic	 n. substance that prevents a wound, etc from becoming septic, esp by destroying bacteria
antisocial	opposed or harmful to the laws and customs of an organized community
antispasmodic	Tending to prevent or relieve non-inflammatory spasmodic affections.
antistrophe	The inversion of terms in successive classes, as in "the home of joy and the joy of home".
antithesis	 n. ~ (of/to sth/sb) direct opposite
antithetic	adjs
antithetical	 direct opposing
antitoxic	[ antitoxin: ] an antibody that neutralizes a toxin
antitoxin	n. substance that acts against a poisonous substance and prevents it from having a harmful effect
antler	 n. branched horn of a stag or of some other deer
antonym	n. word that is opposite in meaning to another
anvil	iron block on which a smith shapes heated metal by hammering it
anxiety	troubled feeling in the mind caused by fear and uncertainty about the future
anxious	~ feeling anxiety; worried; uneasy
anxiousness	[ anxious: ] worried and tense because of possible misfortune, danger, etc.; uneasy
any	(used with ns ) an unspecified amount of
anybody	any person
anyhow	carelessly; unsystematically
anyone	 indef pron = anybody
anything	any thing
anything more than not merely
	anything more than not merely
anyway	 indef adv = anyhow 2
anywhere	in, at or to any place
aorta	n. main artery through which blood is carried from the left side of the heart
apart	to or at a distance
apartheid	n. (official government policy of) racial segregation, separating Europeans and non-Europeans
apartment	(US) = flat1
apathetic	adj. showing or feeling apathy
apathy	 n. ~ lack of interest, enthusiasm or concern; indifference
ape	any of the four primates (gorilla, chimpanzee, orang-utan, gibbon) most closely related to man .
aperitif	 n. alcoholic drink taken as an appetizer before a meal
aperture	narrow opening
apex	 n. top or highest point
aphasia	n. partial or total loss of ability to speak or understand spoken language, caused by damage to the brain
aphasic	n, adj suffering from aphasia
aphid	n. = aphis
aphorism	 n. short wise saying; maxim ;
aphoristic	 adj.
apiarist	 n. person who keeps bees
apiary	 n. place with a number of hives where bees are kept
apiculture	 the cultivation of bees on a commercial scale for the production of honey
aplomb	 n. confidence and self-control; poise
apocalypse	revelation, esp about the future of the world
apocalyptic	adj. prophesying great and dramatic events like those in the Apocalypse
apocrypha	n. those books of the Old Testament that were not accepted by Jews as part of the Hebrew Scriptures and were not included in the Protestant Bible at the Reformation
apocryphal	 adj. not likely to be genuine; untrue or invented
apogee	position in the orbit of the moon, a planet or a satellite when it is at its greatest distance from the earth ,
apolitical	 adj. not interested or involved in politics
apologetic	 adj. ~ feeling or expressing regret; making an apology
apologist	n. person who defends a doctrine by logical argument
apologize	to express or make an apology; acknowledge failings or faults
apology	~ (for sth) statement to say one is sorry for having done wrong or hurt sb's feelings
apophasis	I will not bring up my opponent's questionable financial dealings
apoplectic	of or suffering from apoplexy
apoplexy	 n. sudden inability to feel or move, caused by the blockage or rupture of an artery in the brain ,
apostasy	 n. abandoning one's religious beliefs, principles, political party, etc
apostate	 n. person who renounces his former beliefs, etc
apostle	any of the twelve men sent out by Christ to spread his teaching
apostrophe	 n. sign (') used to show that one or more letters or numbers have been omitted (as in can't for cannot, I'm for I am, '76 for 1976, etc)
apostrophes	[ apostrophe: ]
apothecary	 n. person who prepares and sells medicines and medical goods
apothegm	 = apophthegm
apotheosis	 n. (of a human being) making or becoming a god or a sain
appal	v. fill (sb) with horror or dismay; shock deeply
appall	 to overcome with consternation, shock, or dismay
appalling	adj. shocking; extremely bad
apparatus	set of instruments, etc used esp in scientific experiments
apparel	n. clothing; dress
apparent	clearly seen or understood; obvious
apparently	 adv. according to appearances; as it seems
apparition	appearance, esp of sth startling, strange or unexpected ,
appeal	~ to sb (for sth); ~ for sth make an earnest request
appealing	attractive; charming
appear	come into view; become visible
appearance	coming into view; arrival
appease	v. make quiet or calm, usu by making concessions or by satisfying demands
appeasement	n. act or policy of appeasing, esp by making concessions to a possible enemy in order to avoid war
appeasing	[ appease: ] to calm, pacify, or soothe, esp. by acceding to the demands of
appellate	Capable of being appealed to.
appellation	n. name or title; system of naming ;
append	 v. ~ sth (fml ) attach or add sth (esp in writing)
appendage	n. thing that is added to, or that forms a natural part of, sth larger
appendicitis	 n. inflammation of the appendix
appendix	 n. section that gives extra information at the end of a book or document
appertain	v. ~ to sb/sth belong or relate to sb/sth as a right; be appropriate to sb/sth ;
appetite	physical desire, esp for food or pleasure
appetizer	a small amount of food or drink taken to stimulate the appetite
appetizing	 appealing to or stimulating the appetite especially in appearance or aroma
applaud	show approval of by clapping the hands
applause	approval expressed by clapping the hands
apple	round fruit with firm juicy flesh and green, red or yellow skin when ripe
appliance	instrument or device for a specific purpose
applicability	n.
applicable	 adj. ~ that can be applied (apply 7); appropriate or suitable
applicant	n. ~ person who applies, esp for a job, etc
application	~ (to sb) (for sth) formal request
apply	~ (to sb) (for sth) make a formal request
appoint	~ sb ~ sb (as sth) choose sb for a job or position of responsibility
appointee	n. person appointed to a job or position
appointment	~ (to sth) (act of) appointing a person to a job
apportion	v. ~ sth give sth as a share; allot sth
apposite	 adj. ~ (of a remark, etc) very appropriate (for a purpose or an occasion)
apposition	 n. addition of one word or phrase to another word or phrase as an explanation
appraisal	n. appraising sb/sth; valuation ;
appraise	 v. assess the value or quality of
appreciable	adj. that can be seen or felt; considerable
appreciably	adv: He's looking appreciably thinner
appreciate	understand and enjoy (sth); value highly
appreciated	[ appreciate: ] to feel thankful or grateful for
appreciation	understanding and enjoyment
appreciative	 adj. ~ feeling or showing understanding or gratitude
apprehend	seize (sb); arrest
apprehended	[ apprehend: ] vt. to arrest and escort into custody; seize
apprehensible	Capable of being conceived.
apprehension	anxiety about the future; fear
apprehensive	 adj. ~ ~ (that.../for sb/sth) feeling anxiety; fearful; uneasy
apprentice	person who has agreed to work for a skilled employer for a fixed period in return for being taught his trade or craft
apprenticeship	 n. being an apprentice
apprise	v. ~ sb of sth inform sb of sth
approach	come near or nearer to in space or time
approachable	that can be approached
approbate	to accept as valid
approbation	n. approval; consent
approbatory	(adj.) approving or sanctioning
appropriate	adj. ~ suitable; right and proper
appropriateness	n.
appropriating	[ appropriate: ] right or suitable; fitting
appropriation	appropriating or being appropriated
approval	feeling or showing or saying that one thinks sth is good or acceptable or satisfactory
approve	~ say, show or feel that sth is good or acceptable or satisfactory
approximate	adj. almost correct or exact but not completely so
approximately	adv: It cost approximately 300 I can't remember exactly. 300--
approximation	amount or estimate that is not exactly right but nearly so
appurtenance	minor piece of property; accessory ;
appurtenances	[ appurtenance: ] a secondary or less significant thing or part
April	n. the fourth month of the year, next after March
apron	garment worn over the front part of the body to keep the wearer's clothes clean while working .
apropos	adv, adj appropriate or relevant to what is being said or done
apt	suitable; appropriate
aptitude	 n. ~ natural ability or skill
aptly	adv. suitably; appropriately
aquamarine	bluish-green precious stone
aquaplane	n. board on which a person stands while being towed across water by a speedboat
aquatic	growing or living in or near water
aqueduct	 n. structure for carrying water across country, esp one built like a bridge over a valley or low ground ,
aqueous	adj. of or like water; produced by water
aquifer	a water-bearing stratum of permeable rock, sand, or gravel
aquiline	 adj. of or like an eagle
arabesque	elaborate design of intertwined leaves, branches, scrolls, etc ,
Arabian	adj. of Arabia or the Arabs
arable	 n. , adj suitable for ploughing and for growing crops
arachnid	 n. any of the class of animals including spiders, scorpions, ticks and mites ,
arbiter	~ person who has power to decide what will be done, accepted, etc with regard to sth
arbitrarily	adv.
arbitrariness	n.
arbitrary	based on personal opinion or impulse, not on reason
arbitrate	v. ~ (between A and B) make a judgement about or settle (a dispute) between two parties (usu when asked by them to do so)
arbitration	settling of a dispute by a person or people chosen to do this by both sides in the dispute
arbitrator	 n. person chosen to settle a dispute between two parties
arbor	a shelter of vines or branches or of latticework covered with climbing shrubs or vines
arboreal	 adj. of or living in trees
arborescent	Having the nature of a tree.
arboretum	n. place where trees are grown for scientific study or for display
arboriculture	The cultivation of trees or shrubs.
arc	part of the circumference of a circle or some other curved line .
arcade	 n. covered passage or area, esp one with an arched roof and shops along one or both sides
arcane	 requiring secret or mysterious knowledge
arch	curved structure supporting the weight of sth above it, eg a bridge or the upper storey of a building
arch-	 chief; most important
archaeological	 adj. of or related to archaeology
archaeologist	n. expert in archaeology
archaeology	n. study of ancient civilizations by scientific analysis of physical remains found in the ground
archaic	of a much earlier or an ancient period in history
archaism	archaic word or expression
archangel	n. angel of the highest rank
archbishop	 n. bishop of the highest rank, responsible for a large church district
archdeacon	 n. priest next below the rank of bishop
archer	 n. person who shoots with a bow and arrows, esp as a sport or in battle
archetypally	 [ archetype: ] a perfect or typical specimen
archetype	original or ideal model from which others are copied; prototype ;
archipelago	n. (sea surrounding a) group of many islands
architect	n. person who designs buildings and supervises their construction
architectural	adj. of or related to architecture
architecture	art and science of designing and constructing buildings
archive	a place in which public records or historical documents are preserved
archives	historical documents or records of a government, town, etc
archivist	n. person who is trained to keep archives
archway	n. = arch1
arctic	of the regions around the North Pole
ardent	 adj. full of ardour; enthusiastic
ardently	 with full of ardour
ardor	extreme vigor or energy:INTENSITY
arduous	adj. needing much effort or energy; laborious
area	extent or measurement of a surface
arena	level area in the centre of an amphitheatre or a sports stadium
argot	n. words and phrases used by a particular group and not intended to be understood by others; cant ;
argue	~ (about/over sth) express an opposite opinion; exchange angry words; quarrel
argument	 n. ~ (about/over sth) disagreement; quarrel
argumentation	n. process of arguing; debate ;
argumentative	adj. fond of arguing
argumentativeness [ argumentative: ] given to arguing; contentious
	argumentativeness [ argumentative: ] given to arguing; contentious
aria	 n. song for one voice, esp in an opera or oratorio
arid	having little or no rainfall; dry
aridness	 n.
arise	become evident; appear; originate
aristocracy	highest social class; the nobility
aristocrat	 n. member of the aristocracy; nobleman or noblewoman ;
aristocratic	 adj. belonging to or typical of the aristocracy
arithmetic	 n. branch of mathematics that deals with calculations using numbers
arithmetician	n. expert in arithmetic
ark	n. ship in which Noah, his family and animals were saved from the Flood
arm	either of the two upper limbs of the human body, from the shoulder to the hand
armada	large fleet of ships
armament	weapons, esp the guns on a tank, an aircraft, etc
armchair	 n. chair with supports for the arms .
armful	 n. quantity that can be carried by one or both arms
armistice	n. agreement during a war to stop fighting for a certain time; truce ;
armory	 a place where arms and military equipment are stored
armour	protective, usu metal, covering for the body, worn when fighting
army	part of a country's military forces that is organized and equipped for fighting on land
aroma	n. distinctive smell; fragrance
aromatic	 adj. having a pleasant, distinctive smell; fragrant
arose	pt of arise
around	on every side; in every direction
arouse	~ sb wake sb from sleep
arraign	~ sb (law ) bring a criminal charge against sb; bring sb to court for trial
arrange	put in order; make tidy, neat or attractive
arrangement	putting in order; arranging
arrant	 adj. to the highest degree; utter
array	place (esp armed forces, troops, etc) in battle order
arrear	 Something overdue and unpaid.
arrears	money that is owed and should have been paid earlier
arrest	seize with the authority of the law
arresting	adj. attracting attention; striking
arrhythmic	 lacking rhythm or regularity
arrival	act of arriving
arrive	~ reach (a place), esp at the end of a journey
arrogance	a feeling or an impression of superiority manifested in an overbearing manner or presumptuous claims
arrogant	 adj. behaving in a proud and superior manner; showing too much pride in oneself and too little consideration for others
arrogate	~ sth to oneself claim or take sth to which one has no right
arrow	thin pointed stick designed to be shot from a bow1
arroyo	 a brook; a creek a water-carved gully or channel
arsenal	place where weapons and ammunition are made or stored
arsenic	brittle steel-grey element .
arson	n. criminal and deliberate act of setting fire to a house or other building, either from malice or in order to claim insurance money
arsonist	 n. person who is guilty of arson
art	creation or expression of sth beautiful, esp in a visual form, eg painting, sculpture, etc
arteriosclerosis n. diseased condition in which the walls of the arteries become harder and hinder the circulation of the blood
	arteriosclerosis n. diseased condition in which the walls of the arteries become harder and hinder the circulation of the blood
artery	any of the tubes carrying blood from the heart to all parts of the body
artful	cunningly clever at getting what one wants; crafty
artfulness	 n.
arthritis	n. inflammation of a joint or joints of the body, causing pain and stiffness
Arthurian	Pertaining to King Arthur, the real or legendary hero of British poetic story.
article	particular or separate thing, esp one of a set
articulate	able to express one's ideas clearly in words
articulation	making of speech sounds
artifact	 = artefact
artifacts	especially :an object remaining from a particular period
artifice	 n. clever trickery; deception
artificial	made or produced by man in imitation of sth natural; not real
artillery	heavy guns used in fighting on land
artisan	a manually skilled worker
artist	person who practises any of the fine arts, esp painting
artistic	having natural skill in any of the fine arts
artistry	 n. skill or work of an artist
artless	adj. simple and natural; without deceit
artlessness	[ artless: ] free from deceit, guile, or artfulness; ingenuous
as	so as to appear to be
as for	 prep. with regard to
as yet	 up to the present or a specified time
ascend	 v. go or come up (sth)
ascendancy	 n. ~ (position of) having dominant power or control
ascendant	n. in the ascendant rising in power and influence
ascension	act of ascending
ascent	act of ascending
ascertain	v. discover (sth) so that one is certain; get to know
ascetic	adj. not allowing oneself pleasures and comforts; having or involving a very austere life
asceticism	 n.
ascribable	~ to sb/sth that can be ascribed to sb/sth
ascribe	v. ~ sth to sb/sth consider sth to be caused by, written by or belonging to sb/sth
aseptic	adj. free from bacteria that cause a thing to become septic; surgically clean
asexual	without sex or sex organs
ash	n. tree commonly found in forests, with silver-grey bark and hard close-grained wood.
ashamed	~ ~ (that...) feeling shame, embarrassment, etc about sth/sb or because of one's own actions
ashen	adj. like ashes in colour; very pale
ashore	 adv. to or on the shore or land
ashtray	n. small dish or container into which smokers put tobacco ash, cigarette ends, etc
Asia	 the largest of the continents, bordering on the Arctic Ocean, the Pacific Ocean, the Indian Ocean, and the Mediterranean and Red Seas in the west.
Asian	n. native or inhabitant of Asia
aside	on or to one side of the main position, direction, etc
asinine	adj. stupid or stubborn
ask	~ (about sb/sth); ~ sth of sb request information (about sb/sth) (from sb)
askance	adv. look
askew	adj. , adv not in a straight or level position; crooked
asleep	not awake; sleeping
asparagus	n. plant with feathery leaves whose young shoots are cooked and eaten as a vegetable
aspect	particular part or feature of sth being considered
aspectual	adj. concerned with aspect(5)
asperity	harshness or severity, esp of manner
aspersion	slanderous remark
asphalt	n. black sticky substance like coal tar, mixed with sand or gravel for making road surfaces, or used to make roofs, etc waterproof
asphyxia	 n. condition caused by lack of air in the lungs; suffocation
asphyxiate	 v. cause to become ill or to die by preventing enough air from reaching the lungs; suffocate
aspirant	 n. ~ (fml ) person who is ambitious (for fame, promotion, success, etc)
aspiration	~ ~ (to do sth) strong desire or ambition
aspire	 v. ~ after/to sth desire strongly to achieve sth; have ambition for sth
aspirin	n. medicine used to relieve pain and reduce fever
ass	animal related to the horse, with long ears and a tuft at the end of its tail
assail	 v. ~ sb (fml ) attack sb violently or repeatedly
assailant	n. person who attacks
assassin	 n. killer, esp one who kills an important or famous person for money or for political reasons ,
assassinate	v. kill for money or for political reasons
assassination	n. murder of this kind
assault	n. ~ sudden violent attack
assay	n. testing of esp metals for quality
assemble	come together; collect
assembly	coming together of a group of people for a specific purpose
assent	 n. ~ (fml ) agreement; approval
assert	make others recognize (sth) by behaving firmly and confidently
assertion	action of claiming or stating forcefully; insistence
assertive	adj. showing a strong and confident personality; asserting oneself
assertiveness	n.
assess	~ sth decide or fix the amount of sth
assessment	action of assessing
assessor	person who assesses taxes or the value of property, etc ,
asset	~ valuable or useful quality or skill
asseverate	 v. state (sth) firmly and solemnly
assiduity	n. constant and careful attention to a task
assiduous	adj. showing constant and careful attention
assign	~ sth to sb give sth to sb as a share of work to be done or of things to be used
assignable	 adj. that can be assigned
assignee	 One who is appointed to act for another in the management of certain property and interests.
assignment	task or duty that is assigned to sb
assimilate	(cause sth to) become absorbed into the body after digestion
assimilated	[ assimilate: ] vt. to learn (information, a procedure, etc.) and understand it thoroughly
assist	~ in/with sth; ~ (sb) in doing sth (fml ) help
assistance	 n. help
assistant	person who helps
assize	 n. lawcourt session held periodically in each county of England and Wales for trying civil and criminal cases
associate	joined or allied with a profession or organization
association	~ (with sb/sth) action of associating or being associated
assonance	n. similarity between the vowel sounds only or the consonant sounds only of two words or syllables, as in sharper and garter or killed and cold , sharper garter killed cold
assort	 vt. to arrange or distribute into groups of the same type; classify
assorted	 adj. of different sorts; mixed
assuage	v. make (sth) less severe; soothe
assume	accept as true before there is proof
assumed	adj. pretended; false
assumption	thing accepted as true or as sure to happen, but not proved
assurance	confident belief in one's own abilities and powers
assure	tell (sb) positively or confidently
assured	adj. confident
assuredness	[ assured: ] made certain; sure; guaranteed
asterisk	*, Mr J*n*sMr Jones
asteroid	 n. any of many small planets revolving round the sun, esp between the orbits of Mars and Jupiter
asthma	 n. chronic chest illness causing wheezing and difficulty in breathing
astigmatism	n. defect in an eye or a lens that prevents correct focusing
astonish	 v. surprise greatly
astonished	 adj. very surprised
astonishing	adj. very surprising
astonishment	 n. great surprise
astound	v. overcome with surprise or shock; amaze
astounding	 adj. amazing
astral	 adj. of or from the stars
astray	away from the right path or direction
astride	with one leg on each side
astringent	 n. substance, used medically or in cosmetics, that makes skin or body tissue contract and so stops bleeding
astrolabe	n. instrument used for measuring the altitude of the sun, stars, etc ,
astrologer	 n. person who is an expert in astrology
astrology	n. study of the positions of the stars and movements of the planets in the belief that they influence human affairs
astronaut	n. person who travels in a spacecraft
astronomer	 n. person who studies or is an expert in astronomy
astronomical	of astronomy
astronomy	n. scientific study of the sun, moon, stars, planets, etc
astute	 adj. clever and quick at seeing how to gain an advantage; shrewd
asunder	adv. into pieces; apart
asylum	safety; refuge
asymmetric	 adj. not having parts that correspond to each other in size, shape, etc; lacking symmetry
asymmetrical	 not of equal size or similar shape:
asymptomatic	 adj. (of a disease or suspected disease) without symptoms; providing no subjective evidence of existence
asynchronous	 [ asynchronism: ] a lack of synchronism; occurrence at different times
at	(indicating a point in space )
at a moment?? notice 
	at a moment?? notice 
atavism	n. reappearance in a person of a characteristic or quality that has not been seen in his family for many generations
atavistic	adj. an atavistic urge
ate	pt of eat
atelier	n. artist's studio or workshop
atheism	n. belief that there is no God
atheist	n. person who believes that there is no God
atheistic	adj.
atherosclerosis	adjectivrros
athirst	Wanting water.
athlete	person who trains to compete in physical exercises and sports, esp running and jumping ,
athletic	of athletes or athletics
athletics	n. physical exercises and competitive sports, esp running and jumping
athwart	adv, prep obliquely across (sth); from one side to the other side (of)
Atlantic	 the short for the Atlantic Ocean
atlas	n. book of maps
atmosphere	the atmosphere the mixture of gases that surrounds the earth
atmospheric	of or related to the atmosphere
atom	smallest part of an element that can exist chemically
atomic	 adj. of an atom or atoms
atomizer	 An apparatus for reducing a liquid to a fine spray, as for disinfection, inhalation, etc.
atonal	 adj. not written in any key or system of scales (scale2 6)
atone	v. ~ (fml ) act in a way that compensates for a previous wrong, error, etc
atonement	act of atoning
atrocious	very wicked, cruel or shocking
atrocity	 n. great wickedness or cruelty
atrophy	n. wasting away of the body or part of it through lack of nourishment or use
attach	~ sth fasten or join sth (to sth)
attache	n. person attached to an ambassador's staff with a particular responsibility
attachment	action of attaching; being attached
attack	~ violent attempt to hurt, overcome or defeat sb/sth
attain	succeed in getting (sth); achieve
attainable	 adj. that can be attained
attainment	success in reaching
attempt	v. make an effort to accomplish try (to do sth)
attend	~ apply one's mind steadily; give careful thought
attendance	action or time of being present
attendant	person whose job is to provide a service in a public place
attention	action of applying one's mind to sth/sb or noticing sth/sb
attentive	adj. ~ giving attention (to sb/sth); alert and watchful
attenuate	make (sth/sb) thin or slender
attenuated	 [ attenuate: ] to weaken or become weak; reduce in size, strength, density, or value
attenuation	n.
attest	~ (to) sth be or give clear proof of sth
attic	n. space or room immediately below the roof of a house
attire	 n. clothes; dress
attitude	~ way of thinking or behaving
attorney	person appointed to act for another in business or legal matters
attract	v. pull towards itself/oneself by unseen force
attraction	action or power of attracting
attractive	 adj. having the power to attract(2a); pleasing or interesting
attribute	v. ~ sth to sb/sth regard sth as belonging to, caused by or produced by sb/sth
attribution	attributing sth to sb/sth
attrition	process of gradually weakening sb's strength and confidence by continuous harassment
attune	 v. ~ sth/sb to sth bring sth/sb into harmony or agreement with sth; make sth/sb familiar with sth
atypical	 adj. not representative or characteristic of its type; not typical
auburn	 adj. reddish-brown
auction	method of selling things in which each item is sold to the person who offers the most money for it
audacious	showing a willingness to take risks; daring; fearless
audacity	 boldness
audible	adj. that can be heard clearly
audience	 n. group of people who have gathered together to hear or watch sb/sth
audit	n. official examination of accounts to see that they are in order
audition	 n. trial hearing of a person who wants to perform as an actor, a singer, a musician, etc
auditorium	 n. part of a theatre, concert hall, etc in which an audience sits
auditory	 adj. of or concerned with hearing
auger	n. tool for boring holes in wood, like a gimlet but larger
augment	v. make (sth) larger in number or size; increase
augmentation	 n. action of augmenting or being augmented
augur	to foretell especially from omens
augury	 omen; prophecy
august	 majestic, venerable
Augustinian	Pertaining to St. Augustine, his doctrines, or the religious orders called after him.
aunt	 n. sister of one's father or mother; wife of one's uncle
aura	 n. distinctive atmosphere that seems to surround and be caused by a person or thing
aural	adj. of or concerning the ear or hearing
aureola	= halo
aureole	sun's corona; halo
auricle	One of the two chambers of the heart which receives the blood from the veins.
auricular	adj. of or like the ear
auriferous	 Containing gold.
aurora	 n. (also the northern lights) bands of coloured light, mainly red and green, seen in the sky at night near the North Pole and caused by electrical radiation
auroral	[ aurora: ] an atmospheric phenomenon consisting of bands, curtains, or streamers of light, usually green, red, or yellow, that move across the sky in polar regions.
auspice	protection or support, patronage
auspices	 n. under the auspices of sb/sth helped and supported by sb/sth; having sb/sth as a patron ;
auspicious	 adj. showing signs of future success; favourable; promising
austere	severely and strictly moral; having no pleasures or comforts
austerity	quality of being austere
Australia	a country and the smallest continent, situated between the Indian Ocean and the Pacific: a former British colony, now an independent member of the Commonwealth, constitutional links with Britain formally abolished in 1986
Australian	 n, adj of Australia
autarchy	 Unrestricted power.
authentic	known to be true or genuine
authenticate	 Rractical experience of sth
authenticated	[ authenticate: ] to establish as genuine or valid
authenticity	 n. quality of being authentic
author	writer of a book, play, etc
authoritarian	adj. favouring complete obedience to authority before personal freedom
authoritative	having authority; that can be trusted; reliable
authoritativeness [ authoritative: ] recognized or accepted as being true or reliable
	authoritativeness [ authoritative: ] recognized or accepted as being true or reliable
authority	power to give orders and make others obey
authorization	[ authorize: ] to confer authority upon (someone to do something); empower
authorize	to confer authority upon (someone to do something); empower
autism	 n. serious mental illness, esp of children, in which one becomes unable to communicate or form relationships with others ,
autistic	 adj. suffering from autism
auto	esp US) car
autobiographic	adjs of or concerning autobiography
autobiography	story of a person's life written by that person
autocracy	n. government by one person with unlimited power; despotism ;
autocrat	ruler of an autocracy
autocratic	 adj.
autograph	n. person's signature or handwriting, esp when kept as a souvenir
automate	 v. cause to operate by automation
automatic	working by itself without direct human control; self-regulating
automatically	adv.
automation	 n. use of automatic equipment and machines to do work previously done by people
automatism	 any reaction that occurs automatically without conscious thought or reflection (especially the undirected behavior seen in psychomotor epilepsy)
automaton	= robot 1
automobile	 n. =car
autonomous	 adj. self-governing; acting independently
autonomously	 [ autonomous: ] (of a community, country, etc.) possessing a large degree of self-government
autonomy	 n. self-government; independence
autopsy	n. examination of a dead body to learn the cause of death; post-mortem ()
autumn	 n. the third season of the year, coming between summer and winter, ie from September to November in the northern hemisphere
autumnal	 adj. of or like autumn
auxiliary	adj. giving help or support; additional
auxin	a plant hormone that promotes root formation and bud growth
avail	~ oneself of sth make use of sth; take advantage of sth
availability	 n.
available	that can be used or obtained
avalanche	n. mass of snow, ice and rock that slides rapidly down the side of a mountain
avant-garde	adj. favouring new and progressive ideas, esp in art and literature
avarice	n. greed for wealth or gain
avaricious	 immoderately desirous of acquiring e.g. wealth
avenge	take or get revenge for
avenue	wide road or path, often lined with trees, esp one that leads to a large house ,
aver	 v. (fml ) state (sth) firmly and positively; assert ;
average	result of adding several amounts together and dividing the total by the number of amounts
averse	 adj. ~ to sth not liking sth; opposed to sth
aversion	~ strong dislike
avert	~ sth turn sth away
aviary	 n. large cage or building for keeping birds in, eg in a zoo ,
aviation	 n. science or practice of flying aircraft
aviator	n. person who flies an aircraft as the pilot or one of the crew
avid	 adj. ~ eager; greedy
avidity	n. eagerness
avocation	secondary or minor occupation
avoid	keep oneself away from (sb/sth)
avoidable	adj. that can be avoided
avoidance	n. act of avoiding
avow	 v. declare (sth) openly; admit
avowal	 n. open declaration
avulse	 to separate, cut, or tear off by avulsion
avuncular	adj. of or like an uncle, esp in manner
await	(of a person) wait for (sb/sth)
awake	(cause a person or an animal to) stop sleeping; wake
awaken	stop sleeping; waken
awakening	n. act of realizing
award	v. ~ sth make an official decision to give sth to sb as a prize, as payment or as a punishment
aware	~ of sb/sth; ~ that... having knowledge or realization of sb/sth
awareness	n.
awash	adj. covered or flooded with sea water, being at or near the level of the waves
away	~ (from sb/sth) to or at a distance in space or time (from sb/sth)
awe	n. feeling of respect combined with fear or wonder
awe-inspiring	adj. causing awe
awful	extremely bad or unpleasant; terrible
awfully	adv. very; very much
awkward	badly designed; difficult to use
awkwardly	adv.
awkwardness	n.
awl	n. small pointed tool for making holes, esp in leather or wood
awning	 n. canvas or plastic sheet fixed to a wall above a door or window and stretched out as a protection against rain or sun
awoke	pt of awake
awry	crookedly; out of position; askew ;
ax	 [ ax.
: ] a hand tool with one side of its head forged and sharpened to a cutting edge, used for felling trees, splitting timber, etc.
	: ] a hand tool with one side of its head forged and sharpened to a cutting edge, used for felling trees, splitting timber, etc.
axe	tool with a handle and a heavy metal blade used for chopping wood, cutting down trees, etc
axial	relating to, forming, or characteristic of an axis
axiom	n. statement that is accepted as true without further proof or argument
axiomatic	adj. of or like an axiom; clear and evident without needing to be proved
axis	 n. imaginary line through the centre of a rotating object
axle	rod on which or with which a wheel turns
aye	interj yes
azalea	 n. flowering shrub of the rhododendron family
azure	n. , adj bright blue, as of the sky
babble	talk in a way that is difficult or impossible to understand
babbler	n. person who babbles
baboon	 n. large African or Arabian monkey with a dog-like face .
baby	very young child or animal
babyhood	 n. state of being a baby
babyish	adj. of, like or suitable for a baby
bacchanal	bacchana-lian adj
bacchanalia	orgiastic rites associated with Bacchus
bacchanalian	orgiastic rites associated with Bacchus
bachelor	unmarried man
back	part or surface of an object that is furthest from the front; part that is less used, less visible or less important
backdrop	 n. = backcloth
background	part of a view, scene or description that forms a setting for the chief objects, people, etc
backhand	 n. stroke or blow made with the back of the hand turned towards the opponent
backhanded	played as a backhand
backless	 adj. cut low at the back1(
backlog	n. accumulation of work or business not yet attended to
backset	n. a setback or reversal ; an eddy or countercurrent in water.
backslide	v. lapse from good ways into one's former bad ways of living
backward	directed towards the back or the starting point
backwards	away from one's front; towards the back
backwater	part of a river not reached by the current, where the water does not flow
backwaters	 [ backwater: ] a body of stagnant water connected to a river
bacon	salted or smoked meat from the back or sides of a pig
Baconian	 Of or pertaining to Lord Bacon or his system of philosophy.
bacteria	 n. simplest and smallest forms of plant life, microscopic organisms that exist in large numbers in air, water and soil, and also in living and dead creatures and plants, and are often a cause of disease
bacterium	A microbe.
bad	adj. of poor quality; below an acceptable standard; faulty
badge	n. thing worn (usu a design on cloth or sth made of metal) to show a person's occupation, rank, membership of a society, etc
badger	 n. animal of the weasel family, grey with black and white stripes on its head, living in holes in the ground and moving about at night .
badinage	 n. playful teasing; banter ;
badly	in an inadequate or unsatisfactory manner
badminton	n. game for two or four people played with rackets and shuttlecocks on a court with a high net
baffle	be too difficult for to understand; puzzle
baffling	 adj. a baffling crime
bag	container made of flexible material (eg paper, cloth or leather) with an opening at the top, used for carrying things from place to place
bagatelle	game played on a board with small balls that are hit into holes
baggage	= luggage
bail	money paid by or for a person accused of a crime, as security that he will return for his trial if he is allowed to go free until then
bailiff	law officer who helps a sheriff in issuing writs and making arrests
bait	food or imitation food put on a hook to catch fish or placed in nets, traps, etc to attract prey
baize	n. thick woollen cloth used for covering billiard-tables, card-tables, doors, etc ,
bake	~ sth (cause sth to) be cooked by dry heat in an oven
baker	person who bakes and sells bread, etc
balance	instrument used for weighing, with a central pivot, a beam and two scales or pans
balanced	 adj. keeping or showing a balance
balcony	platform with a wall or rail built onto the outside wall of a building and reached from an upstairs room .
bald	(of people) having little or no hair on the scalp
balderdash	 n. nonsense
baldly	 adv. in plain words; with no elaboration
bale	 n. large bundle of paper, straw, goods, etc pressed together and tied with rope or wire ready to be moved, sold, etc
baleful	adj. threatening evil or harm; menacing
balk	 n. thick, roughly-squared wooden beam
balky	refusing or likely to refuse to proceed, act, or function as directed or expected
ball	solid or hollow sphere used in games
ballad	 n. simple song or poem, esp one that tells a story
ballast	heavy material placed in a ship's hold to keep it steady
ballerina	n. female ballet dancer, esp one who takes leading parts
ballet	the ballet) style of dancing used to tell a story in a dramatic performance with music but without speech or singing
balloon	brightly-coloured rubber bag that is filled with air, used as a child's toy or a decoration
ballot	(also `ballot-paper) piece of paper used in secret voting
balloting	[ ballot: ] the democratic practice of selecting a representative, a course of action, or deciding some other choice by submitting the options to a vote of all qualified persons
ballroom	 n. large room used for dancing
ballyhoo	noisy publicity or advertising
balm	sweet-smelling oil or ointment obtained from certain types of tree, used for soothing pain or for healing ,
balmy	(of air) gentle and pleasantly warm
balsam	flowering plant grown in gardens
bamboo	 n. tall plant of the grass family with hard hollow jointed stems that are used for making canes, furniture, etc
bamboozle	mystify (sb); puzzle
ban	officially forbid (sth)
banal	adj. commonplace; uninteresting
banality	quality of being banal
banana	long thick-skinned edible fruit that is yellow when ripe .
band	thin flat strip, hoop or loop used for fastening things together or for placing round an object to strengthen it
bandage	n. strip of material used for binding round a wound or an injury
bandanna	 n. large handkerchief with coloured spots, usu worn round the neck
bandit	 n. member of a gang of armed robbers
banditry	 n. activity of bandits
bandy	(idm ) bandy `words (with sb) (dated ) exchange words, etc, esp when quarrelling
bane	 n. the bane of sb's existence/life cause of sb's ruin or trouble
baneful	adj. evil or causing evil
bang	strike (sth) deliberately and violently, often in order to make a loud noise
banish	~ sb send sb away, esp out of the country, as a punishment
banishment	 n. state or process of being banished
banister	 n. handrail of a stair and the upright poles supporting it
bank	land sloping up along each side of a river or canal; ground near a river
banker	owner, director or manager of a bank3
bankrupt	 n. person judged by a lawcourt to be unable to pay his debts in full, whose property is then taken by the court and used to repay his creditors
bankruptcy	 n. state of being bankrupt
banner	large strip of cloth showing an emblem or slogan, which is displayed or carried, usu on two poles, during eg political or religious processions
banquet	n. elaborate formal meal, usu for a special event, at which speeches are often made
banter	 n. playful, good-humoured teasing
bantering	adj. playfully teasing
baptism	ceremony marking a person's admission into the Christian Church either by dipping him in water or by sprinkling him with water, and often giving him a name or names ,
baptismal	adj. of or related to baptism
bar	piece of solid material
barb	point of an arrow, a fish-hook, etc curved backwards to make it difficult to pull out .
barbarian	n, adj (person who is) primitive, coarse or cruel
barbarity	n. savage cruelty
barbarous	unrefined in taste, habits, etc
barbecue	metal frame for cooking meat, etc over an open fire
barbed	 adj. having a barb or barbs
barber	 n. person whose trade is cutting men's hair and shaving them
barcarole	n. piece of music, esp for the piano, with a steady lilting rhythm ,
bard	minstrel
bare	without clothing
barefaced	adj. impudent; shameless
barely	only just; scarcely
bargain	agreement in which both or all sides promise to do sth for each other
barge	large flat-bottomed boat for carrying goods and people on rivers, canals, etc
baritone	male voice between tenor and bass
bark	 n. tough outer covering of tree trunks and branches
barley	 n. grain used for food and for making beer and whisky
barn	simple building for storing hay, grain, etc on a farm
barograph	An instrument that registers graphically and continuously the atmospheric pressure.
barometer	instrument for measuring atmospheric pressure, used esp for forecasting the weather
barometric	 adj. barometric pressure
baron	Baron Y
baroque	adj. n highly ornate style fashionable in the arts (esp architecture) in Europe in the 17th and 18th centuries ,
barque	 n. sailing-ship with 3, 4 or 5 masts and sails
barrage	barrier built across a river to store water for irrigation, prevent flooding, etc
barrel	large round container with flat ends and bulging in the middle, made of wood, metal or plastic
barren	not good enough to produce crops
barricade	n. barrier hastily built as a defence or an obstacle
barrier	thing that prevents or controls progress or movement
barrister	n. lawyer who has the right to speak and argue as an advocate in higher lawcourts
barter	~ sth ~ sth (away) exchange (goods, property, etc) for other goods, etc without using money
barterer	 [ barter: ] to trade (goods, services, etc.) in exchange for other goods, services, etc., rather than for money
base	lowest part of sth, esp the part on which it rests or is supported
baseball	 n. game popular in the USA, played with a bat and ball by two teams of nine players each on a field with four bases
baseboard	n. = skirt (skirting-board). `base hit (also single) (in baseball) hit that enables a batter to reach first base
baseless	 adj. without cause or foundation
basement	 n. lowest room or rooms in a building, partly or wholly below ground level
baseness	 n. state of being base3
bases	pl of basis
bashful	adj. shy and self-conscious
bashfulness	n.
basic	~ forming a base or starting-point; fundamental
basically	adv. with reference to essential matters (which are often seen as different from what is superficially apparent); fundamentally
basin	= wash-basin (wash)
basinful	 n. amount that a basin contains
basis	n. main principle that underlies sth; foundation
bask	 v. ~ sit or lie enjoying warmth
basket	container, usu made of material that bends and twists easily (eg reed, cane, wire), with or without a handle
basketball	 n. game played by two teams of five players in which goals are scored by throwing a large ball into an open-ended net fixed high on a hoop at the opponents' end of the court .
bass	 n. any of several freshwater or sea fish of the perch family used as food
bassoon	n. low-pitched woodwind instrument with a double reed
bastard	illegitimate child
baste	v. sew together with long temporary stitches
bastion	part of a fortification that projects from the rest
bat	small mouse-like animal that flies atnight and feeds on fruit and insects .
batch	number of loaves, cakes, etc baked together
bate	 let down; restrain
bath	 n. washing of the whole body, esp when sitting or lying in water
bathe	apply water to (sth); soak in water
bathetic	 exceptional commonplaceness:TRITENESS
bathroom	 n. room in which there is a bath (and also usu a wash-basin and sometimes a toilet)
baton	= truncheon
battalion	n. army unit composed of several companies and forming part of a regiment or brigade
batten	long board, esp one used to keep other boards in place, or to which other boards are nailed
batter	 v. ~ at/on sth hit hard and often
battered	 adj. out of shape because of age, regular use or frequent accidents
battery	portable container of a cell or cells for supplying electricity
battle	fight, esp between organized armed forces
bauble	 n. showy ornament of little value
bauxite	n. clay-like substance from which aluminium is obtained
bawdy	adj. amusing in a coarse or indecent way
bawl	~ (out) shout or cry loudly
bay	n. laurel with dark green leaves and purple berries
bazaar	group of shops or stalls or part of a town where these are
be	exist; occur; live
beach	stretch of sand or pebbles along the edge of the sea or a lake; shore between high and low water mark
beacon	fire lit on a hilltop as a signal
bead	 a small usually spherical piece of glass, wood, plastic, etc., with a hole through it by means of which it may be strung with others to form a necklace, etc
beaker	open glass container with a lip for pouring, used in chemistry laboratories
beam	long piece of wood, metal, concrete, etc, usu horizontal and supported at both ends, that carries the weight of part of a building or some other structure
bean	smooth, usu kidney-shaped, seed, used as a vegetable
bear	large heavy animal with thick fur
beard	n. hair growing on the chin and the lower cheeks of a man's face
bearded	adj. having a beard
beardless	adj. having no beard
bearing	way of standing, walking, etc; deportment
beast	animal, esp a large four-footed one
beat	 v. hit (sb/sth) repeatedly, esp with a stick
beater	utensil for beating things
beatific	 adj. showing or giving great joy and serenity; blissful
beatification	nsuch an official statement
beatify	v. (of the Pope) honour (a dead person) by stating officially that he or she is in heaven
beatitude	great happiness; blessedness ;
beau	(US) boy-friend; lover ;
beautiful	having beauty; giving pleasure to the senses or the mind
beautifully	in a lovely manner
beauty	combination of qualities that give pleasure to the senses or to the mind
beauty spot	place famous for its beautiful scenery
beaux	pl of beau
beaver	fur-coated animal with strong teeth that lives both on land and in water and gnaws down trees to build dams
becalm	 To make quiet.
became	 pt of become
because	conj for the reason that
beck	 n. mountain stream; brook ;
beckon	~ sb (to do sth) make a gesture to sb with the hand, arm or head, usu to make him come nearer or to follow
become	 to come to be; develop or grow into
bed	thing to sleep or rest on, esp a piece of furniture with a mattress and coverings
bedaub	 To smear over, as with something oily or sticky.
bedeck	 to clothe with finery:DECK
bedizen	dress with vulgar finery
bedlam	 n. scene of noisy confusion; uproar
bedraggle	wet thoroughly
bedraggled	 adj. made wet or dirty by rain, mud, etc; untidy
bedrock	n. solid rock beneath loose soil, sand, etc
bedroom	n. room for sleeping in
bee	four-winged insect with a sting, that lives in a colony and collects nectar and pollen from flowers to produce wax and honey .
beef	flesh of an ox, a bull or a cow, used as meat
beefy	adj. (infml ) having a strong muscular body
beeline	the most direct route between two places
been	 pp of be
beer	alcoholic drink made from malt and flavoured with hops, etc
beeswax	n. yellowish wax made by bees for building honeycombs, also used for making wood polish
beet	type of plant with a fleshy root which is used as a vegetable or for making sugar
beetle	 n. any of several types of insect, often large and black, with hard wing-cases
beeves	 pl of beef 2
befall	 v.(used only in the 3rd person)(arch)happen to (sb)
befog	v. confuse (sb/sth); make unclear or obscure
before	 adv. at an earlier time; in the past; already
beforehand	in advance; in readiness; earlier
befriend	 v. act as a friend to be kind to (esp sb needing help)
befriended	 [ befriend: ] to be a friend to; assist; favou
befuddle	 confuse thoroughly
befuddlement	 n. confuse
beg	~ (from sb); ~ (for) sth (from/of sb) ask for (money, food, clothes, etc) as a gift or as charity; make a living in this way
began	pt of begin
beget	(arch ) be the father of (sb)
beggar	person who lives by begging; very poor person ;
begin	set (sth) in motion; start
beginner	person who is just beginning to learn or do sth
beginning	first part
begrudge	resent or be dissatisfied with
beguile	charm (sb)
beguiling	adj.
begun	pp of begin
behalf	 n. on behalf of sb/on sb's behalf; US in behalf of sb/in sb's behalf as the representative of or spokesman for sb; in the interest of sb
behave	~ well, badly, etc act or conduct oneself in the specified way
behavior	 [ behaviour: ] manner of behaving or conducting oneself
behaviour	way of treating others; manners
behead	 v. cut off the head of (sb), esp as a punishment
beheld	 pt, pp of behold
behemoth	 huge creature; something of monstrous size or power
behest	 n. at sb's be`hest (dated or fml ) on sb's orders
behind	in or to a position at the back of (sb/sth)
behold	(arch or rhet ) (often imperative ) see (esp sth unusual)
beholden	 adj. ~ to sb (dated or fml ) owing thanks or indebted to sb
beholder	 [ behold: ] (archaic or literary)
behoove	n. suited to ; incumbent upon
being	existence
belabor	to explain or insist on excessively
belabour	 v. ~ sb/sth (arch ) beat sb/sth hard; attack sb/sth
belated	adj. coming very late or too late
belay	v. fix (a rope) round a peg, rock, etc in order to secure it
belch	send out gas from the stomach noisily through the mouth
beleaguer	besiege
belie	give a wrong or an untrue idea of (sth)
belief	~ in sth/sb feeling that sth/sb is real and true; trust or confidence in sth/sb ;
believability	[ believe: ] v. to accept (a statement, supposition, or opinion) as true
believable	 adj. that can be believed . believably
believe	feel sure of the truth of accept the statement of (sb) as true
belittle	 v. make seem unimportant or of little value
belittling	 adj. making sb seem unimportant or worthless
bell	hollow metal object, usu shaped like a cup, that makes a ringing sound when struck
belle	n. beautiful woman or the most beautiful woman in a group, etc
bellicose	adj. eager to fight; warlike; aggressive
belligerence	 belligerency ns
belligerent	waging war; engaged in a conflict
belligerently	waging war
bellow	make a deep loud noise like a bull; roar, esp with pain
bellwether	 One that serves as a leader or as a leading indicator of future trends
belly	part of the body below the chest, containing the stomach, bowels and digestive organs; abdomen .
belong	~ to sb be the property of sb
belonging	secure relationship; affinity
belongings	 n. person's movable possessions
beloved	adj. ~ (by/of sb) much loved
below	prep at or to a lower position, level, rank, etc than
belt	strip of leather, cloth, etc usu worn around the waist
beluga	 a large white sturgeon, Acipenser (or Huso) huso, of the Black and Caspian Seas: a source of caviar and isinglass
bemoan	 v. show sorrow for or complain about (sb/sth)
bemuse	 (v.) to preoccupy in thought
bemused	adj. bewildered or confused
bench	long seat made of wood or stone
bend	force (sth that was straight) into an angle; make crooked or curved
beneath	in or to a lower position than (sb/sth); under ;
benediction	n. blessing, esp one said before a meal or at the end of a church service
benefactor	 n. person who gives money or other help to a school, hospital, charity, etc
benefice	 n. position that provides a clergyman with his income
beneficent	 adj. showing active kindness; generous; charitable
beneficial	 adj. ~ having a helpful or useful effect; advantageous
beneficiary	n. person who receives sth, esp one who receives money, property, etc when sb dies
benefit	profit; gain; future good (used esp with the vs and preps shown)
benevolence	n. desire to do good; kindness and generosity ;
benevolent	 adj. ~ being, or wishing to be, kind, friendly and helpful
benighted	adj. unenlightened morally or intellectually; ignorant; backward
benign	kindly; gentle
benignant	Benevolent in feeling, character, or aspect.
benignity	the quality of being benign; favourable attitude
benison	blessing
bent	~ (for sth/doing sth) natural skill (at sth); liking or inclination (for sth/doing sth)
bequeath	 v. ~ sth (to sb) arrange, by making a will, to give (property, money etc) (to sb) when one dies
bequest	act of bequeathing
berate	 v. scold sharply
bereave	v. ~ sb (fml ) deprive sb (esp of a relative) by death
bereaved	to deprive (of) something or someone valued, esp. through death
bereavement	state of being bereaved
bereft	 adj. ~ (fml ) deprived of (a power or quality)
berry	small juicy fruit without a stone
berserk	adj. wild with rage
berth	sleeping-place on a ship, train, etc
beseech	v. ~ sb (for sth) ask sb earnestly; implore sb; entreat sb
beset	v. (fml ) surround (sb/sth) on all sides; trouble constantly; threaten
beside	at the side of (sb/sth); next to ;
besides	in addition to
besiege	surround with armed forces in order to make it surrender
besmear	v. ~ sth/sb (fml ) make sth/sb dirty; smear sth/sb (with greasy or sticky stuff)
besmirch	 v. dishonour (sb/sth); slander
besought	 pt, pp of beseech
bespeak	v. (dated or fml ) be evidence of (sth); indicate
bespoke	made according to the customer's specifications
best	 adj. 1 of the most excellent, desirable, suitable, etc kind
bestial	adj. of or like a beast; brutish; cruel
bestow	 v. ~ sth (fml ) present sth as a gift (to sb); confer
bestrew	To sprinkle or cover with things strewn.
bestride	 v. (fml ) sit or stand with one leg on each side of (sth)
bet	~ (sth) (on sth) risk (money) on a race or on some other event of which the result is doubtful
bethink	To remind oneself.
betide	 v. woe betide sb
betimes	In good season or time.
betoken	v. be a sign of (sth); indicate
betray	~ sb/sth hand over or show sb/sth disloyally (to an enemy)
betrayal	 n. betraying or being betrayed
betroth	become engaged to marry
betrothal	n. engagement to be married
better	 adj. 1 of a more excellent or desirable kind
bettor	 [ better: ] the comparative of: good
between	in or into the space separating (two or more points, objects, people, etc)
bevel	sloping edge or surface, eg at the side of a picture frame or a sheet of plate glass .
beverage	 n. any type of drink except water, eg milk, tea, wine, beer
bevy	large group
bewail	 v. express sorrow over (sth); mourn for
beware	 v. ~ (of sb/sth) be cautious (of sb/sth); take care (about sb/sth) ;
bewilder	 v. puzzle (sb); confuse
bewildering	adj. puzzling
bewilderment	 n. state of being bewildered
bewitch	put a magic spell on
beyond	at or to a more distant point than
bias	opinion or feeling that strongly favours one side in an argument or one item in a group or series; predisposition; prejudice
biased	 prejudice
bible	n. (also the Bible) sacred writings of the Christian Church, comprising the Old and New Testaments
bibliographer	n.
bibliography	list of books or articles about a particular subject or by a particular author
bibliomania	preoccupation with the acquisition and possession of books
bibliophile	n. person who loves or collects books
bibulous	 adj. excessively fond of or addicted to alcoholic drink
bicameral	adj. having two legislative chambers
bicker	 v. ~ (over/about sth) quarrel about unimportant things
bicycle	n. two-wheeled vehicle on which a person rides, using pedals to drive it along
bid	~ (sth) (for sth); esp US ~ (sth) (on sth) offer (a price) in order to buy sth, esp at an auction
biddable	 adj. ready to obey; docile ;
bide	= abide
biennial	happening every second year
bier	 n. frame on which a coffin or a dead body is carried or placed before burial
bifocal	adj. designed for looking at both distant and close objects
bifurcate	v. (of roads, rivers, branches of trees, etc) divide into or have two branches ,
bifurcated	 [ bifurcate: ] to fork or divide into two parts or branches
big	large in size, extent or intensity
bigamist	 n. person guilty of bigamy
bigamy	 n. marrying a person when still legally married to someone else
bight	long inward curve in a coast
bigot	n. person who holds strong beliefs and opinions, and is intolerant of anyone who disagrees
bigoted	adj. intolerant and narrow-minded
bigotry	n. bigoted attitude or behaviour
bike	bicycle
bilateral	adj. having two sides; affecting or involving two parties, countries, etc
bilateralism	 n. principle based on bilateral agreements between countries, esp in trade and finance
bile	bitter yellowish liquid produced by the liver to help the body to digest fats
bilge	almost flat part of the bottom of a ship, inside or outside ,
bilingual	able to speak two languages equally well
bilious	caused by or suffering from too much bile
bilk	 v. ~ sb of sth) avoid paying money to sb; cheat sb (out of sth)
bill	(US check) written statement of money owed for goods or services supplied
billion	1000000000000; one million million(s) ; .
billow	large wave
billowing	[ billow: ] a large sea wave
billowy	adj. rising or moving like waves
bimonthly	adj. produced or happening every second month or twice a month
bin	large container, usu with a lid, for storing bread, flour, coal, wine, etc
bind	~ A (to B); ~ A and B (together) tie or fasten, eg with rope
binge	time of wild or excessive eating and drinking
binoculars	 n. instrumentwith a lens for each eye, making distant objects seem nearer
biographer	 n. person who writes a biography
biographical	 [ biography: ] an account of a person's life by another
biography	n. story of a person's life written by sb else
biologic	 [ biological: ] of or relating to biology
biological	 adj. of or relating to biology
biologist	n. expert in biology
biology	n. scientific study of the life and structure of plants and animals
biosphere	gaseous envelope
bipartisan	 adj. of or involving two political parties
biped	n. animal with two feet
biplane	n. early type of aeroplane with two sets of wings, one above the other
birch	type of northern forest tree with smooth bark and thin branches
bird	feathered animal with two wings and two legs, usu able to fly
birth	emergence of young from the mother's body; being born or bearing young
birthday	an anniversary of the day of one's birth
birthright	 n. privilege or property which a person may claim because of birth or status
biscuit	small flat thin piece of pastry baked crisp
bishop	senior clergyman in charge of the work of the Church in a city or district
bison	American buffalo
bit	small piece or amount (of sth)
bite	~ (into sth) cut into or nip (sth/sb) with the teeth
biting	causing a smarting pain
bitten	 pt of bite1
bitter	having a sharp taste like aspirin or unsweetened coffee; not sweet
bitterly	 adv. in a bitter way
bitterness	 n.
bituminous	 adj. containing bitumen
bivalve	n. shellfish with a hinged double shell, eg a mussel or clam
bivouac	n. temporary camp without tents or any other cover, esp used by soldiers or mountaineers 
bizarre	adj. strange in appearance or effect; grotesque; eccentric ;
blab	give away a secret by indiscreet talk; confess
black	of the very darkest colour, like coal or soot; opposite of white; of a colour very similar to this
blackball	v. prevent from joining a club or group by voting against him in a ballot
blackberry	wild shrub with thorny stems
blackboard	 n. dark-coloured board used for writing on with chalk, esp in a school classroom
blacken	make or become black or very dark
blackmail	demanding money by threatening to reveal information which could harm him
blackout	 the extinguishing or hiding of all artificial light, esp. in a city visible to an enemy attack from the air
blacksmith	 n. person whose job is to make and repair things made of iron, esp horseshoes
blade	flat cutting part of a knife, sword, chisel, etc
blame	~ sb ~ sth on sb consider or say that sb is responsible for sth done (badly or wrongly) or not done
blanch	prepare by putting briefly in boiling water; scald
bland	gentle or casual in manner; showing no strong emotions; suave ;
blandishment	 n. (fml ) flattering or coaxing words and actions
blandishments	flattery intended to coax or cajol
blandness	polite manner/comforting/uninteresting
blank	without writing or print; unmarked
blanket	thick woollen covering used, esp on beds, for keeping people warm
blare	~ make a loud harsh sound like a trumpet
blarney	n. smooth talk that flatters and deceives people
blase	adj. ~ bored or not impressed by things because one has already experienced or seen them so often
blaspheme	v. ~ swear or curse using the name of God; speak in an irreverent way about (God or sacred things)
blasphemer	 n. person who blasphemes
blasphemous	adj. showing contempt or irreverence for God and sacred things
blasphemy	n. blasphemous behaviour or language
blast	explosion; destructive wave of air from an explosion
blatancy	 n. blatant quality
blatant	adj. very obvious; unashamed; flagrant
blatantly	adv.
blaze	bright flame or fire
blazon	 n. heraldic shield; coat of arms ;
bleach	 v. become white or pale (by chemical action or sunlight)
bleacher	 [ bleach: ] to make or become white or colourless, as by exposure to sunlight, by the action of chemical agents, etc
bleachers	n. cheap seats at a sports ground that are not roofed over
bleak	(of a landscape) bare; exposed; wind-swept
bleed	lose or emit blood
bleeding	 adj. = bloody2
blemish	mark or stain that spoils the beauty or perfection of sb/sth
blench	 v. make a sudden movement because of fear; flinch ;
blend	mix in order to get a certain quality
blender	n. = liquidizer (liquidize)
bless	ask God's favour and protection for (sb/sth)
blessed	holy; sacred
blessing	God's favour and protection
blew	 pt of blow
blight	disease that withers plants
blighted	 (adj.) causing frustration or destruction
blimp	n. small airship without a rigid frame
blind	unable to see
blindfold	v. cover the eyes of with a bandage, cloth, etc so that he cannot see
blindingly	 [ blinding: ] sand or grit spread over a road surface to fill up cracks
blindness	n.
blinds	unable to see; sightless
blink	shut and open the eyes quickly
bliss	n. perfect happiness; great joy
blissful	 adj. extremely happy; joyful
blithe	 adj. happy and carefree; casual
blithely	 adv. in a blithe manner
blithesome	 Cheerful.
blitz	sudden intensive military attack, esp from the air
blizzard	 n. severe snowstorm
bloated	adj. swollen with fat, gas or liquid
block	large solid piece of wood, stone, metal, etc, usu with flat surfaces
block and tackle lifting device consisting of ropes and pulleys
	block and tackle lifting device consisting of ropes and pulleys
blockade	surrounding or closing of a place by warships or soldiers to prevent people or goods getting in or out
blockage	 n. thing that blocks; obstruction
blockbuster	a large bomb used to demolish extensive areas
blond	n, adj having golden or pale-coloured hair
blood	red liquid flowing through the bodies of humans and animals
bloody	covered with blood; bleeding
bloom	flower, esp of plants admired chiefly for their flowers
blooming	 adj. , adv = bloody2
blossom	flower, esp of a fruit tree or flowering shrub
blot	spot or stain made by ink, etc
blotch	 n. large discoloured mark, usu irregular in shape
blotto	 adj. very drunk
blouse	garment like a shirt, worn by women
blow	 v. (pt blew/ blu
blowed	 (of the wind or a current of air) be moving
blower	device that produces a current of air
blowhard	 a very boastful and talkative person
blown	pp of blow1
bludgeon	 n. short thick stick with a heavy end, used as a weapon
blue	having the colour of a clear sky or the sea on a sunny day
bluebottle	 n. large buzzing fly with a blue body
blueprint	photographic print of building plans, with white lines on a blue background
blues	[ blue: ] any of a group of colours, such as that of a clear unclouded sky, that have wavelengths in the range 490--445 nanometres. Blue is the complementary colour of yellow and with red and green forms a set of primary colours
bluff	try to deceive by pretending to be stronger, braver, cleverer, etc than one is
bluffing	 [ bluff: ] to pretend to be confident about an uncertain issue or to have undisclosed resources, in order to influence or deter
blunder	n. stupid or careless mistake
blunderer	n. person who makes blunders
blundering	 [ blunder: ] a stupid or clumsy mistake
blunt	without a sharp edge or a point
blunted	[ blunt: ] (esp. of a knife or blade) lacking sharpness or keenness; dull
blur	 to make indistinct and hazy in outline or appearance;obscure
blurb	n. publisher's short description of the contents of a book, usu printed on the jacket or cover
blurt	v. blurt sth out say sth suddenly and tactlessly
blush	~ (at sth) become red in the face (because of sth)
bluster	blow fiercely or in strong gusts
board	long thin flat piece of cut wood used for building walls, floors, boats, etc
boast	~ talk (about one's own achievements, abilities, etc) with too much pride and satisfaction
boastful	 adj. (of a person) often boasting
boastfully	 adv.
boat	small vessel for travelling in on water, moved by oars, sails or a motor
boatswain	n. senior seaman on a ship who supervises the crew and is responsible for the ship's equipment
bobtail	tail cut short
bode	be a sign of (sth coming)
bodice	upper part of a woman's dress, down to the waist
bodily	 adj. of the human body; physical
boding	 an omen, prediction, or presentiment especially of coming evil:PORTENT ,FOREBODING
body	whole physical structure of a human being or an animal
bodyguard	n. man or group of men whose job is to protect an important person
bog	wet spongy ground formed of decaying vegetation
boggle	~ (infml ) hesitate (at sth) in alarm or amazement
boggy	adj. soft and wet
bogus	adj. not genuine; false
Bohemian	 n, adj having or displaying a very informal and unconventional way of life ,
boil	 n. infected swelling under the skin, producing pus
boiler	metal container in which water is heated, eg to produce steam in an engine
boisterous	noisy, lively and cheerful
bold	confident and brave; daring; enterprising
boldness	 n.
bole	 n. trunk of a tree
bolero	 n. 1 (music for a) type of Spanish dance
boll	 n. seed-case of the cotton plant or flax
bolster	n. long pillow, usu shaped like a roll, across the head of a bed
bolt	metal bar that slides into a socket to lock a door, window, etc
bolted	 [ bolt: ] a bar that can be slid into a socket to lock a door, gate, etc
bomb	container filled with explosive or incendiary material, made to explode when dropped or thrown, or by a timing device
bombard	v. ~ sb/sth attack (a place) with bombs or shells (esp from big guns)
bombardier	non-commissioned officer in an artillery regiment below a sergeant
bombardment	n.
bombast	n. pompous and meaningless words
bombastic	adj. pompous and empty
bomber	aircraft that carries and drops bombs
bonanza	source of sudden great wealth or luck; increase in profits
bond	written agreement or promise that has legal force; covenant
bondage	n. slavery; captivity
bone	any of the hard parts that form the skeleton of an animal's body
bonhomie	 n. hearty cheerfulness of manner
bonnet	hat tied with strings under the chin, worn by babies and formerly by women
bonny	adj. (approv esp Scot , ) attractive or beautiful; healthy-looking
bonus	payment added to what is usual or expected, eg an extra dividend paid to shareholders in a company or to holders of an insurance policy
bony	of or like bone
boo	sound made to show disapproval or contempt
book	number of printed or written sheets of paper bound together in a cover
bookcase	 n. piece of furniture with shelves for books
bookish	fond of reading; studious
booklet	n. thin book, usu in paper covers
boom	make a deep hollow resonant sound
boon	request or favour (used esp with the vs shown)
boor	 n. rough, rude or insensitive man
boorish	adj. of or like a boor
boorishness	n.
boost	v. increase the strength or value of help or encourage (sb/sth)
booster	thing that boosts
boot	outer covering for the foot and ankle, made of eg leather or rubber
booth	small, usu temporary, stall where goods are sold or displayed at a market, a fair or an exhibition
bootless	 adj. without advantage or benefit; useless
booty	n. things taken by thieves or captured from an enemy in war; loot; plunder ;
booze	v. drink alcoholic liquor, esp in large quantities
border	(land near the) line dividing two countries or areas; frontier
bore	make with a revolving tool or by digging
boredom	n. state of being bored
boring	 adj. uninteresting; dull; tedious
born	be born come into the world by birth
borne	pp of bear2.
borough	town or district with a corporation and certain rights of self-government granted by royal charter
borrow	receive or obtain (sth) temporarily (from sb/sth), with the promise or intention of returning it
borrower	 n. person who borrows
bosom	person's chest, esp a woman's breasts
boss	 n. person who controls or gives orders to workers; manager; employer
botanical	adj. of or relating to botany
botanist	 n. expert in botany
botanize	 To study plant-life.
botany	 n. scientific study of plants and their structure
botch	v. ~ sth spoil sth by poor or clumsy work; repair sth badly
both	the two; the one as well as the other
bother	~ sb (about/with sth) cause trouble or annoyance to sb; pester sb
bottle	glass or plastic container, usu with a narrow neck, used for storing liquids
bottleneck	 n. a narrow or obstructed section, as of a highway or a pipeline.
bottom	lowest part or point of sth
botulism	 n. type of severe food poisoning caused by bacteria in badly preserved food
boudoir	n. woman's bedroom or private sitting-room
bough	n. any of the main branches of a tree
bought	 pt, pp of buy
bouillon	 n. thin clear soup or broth; stock ;
boulder	n. large rock worn and shaped by water or the weather
bounce	spring back when sent against sth hard
bouncy	(of a ball) able to bounce
bound	v. form the boundary of (sth); limit
boundary	line that marks a limit; dividing line
bounded	(of a set) having a bound, esp. where a measure is defined in terms of which all the elements of the set, or the differences between all pairs of members, are less than some value, or else all its members lie within some other well-defined set
boundless	adj. without limits
bounteous	(of a person) generous
bountiful	giving generously
bounty	generosity in giving; liberality
bouquet	bunch of flowers for carrying in the hand
bourgeois	of or relating to the property-owning middle class
bout	~ short period of a specified activity
bovine	of or relating to cattle
bow	piece of wood bent into a curve by a tight string joining its ends, used as a weapon for shooting arrows
bowdlerize	 expurgate
bower	shady place under trees or climbing-plants in a wood or garden; arbour ;
bowl	(esp in compounds ) deep round dish, used esp for holding food or liquid
bowler	person who bowls in cricket
box	(esp in compounds ) container made of wood, cardboard, metal, etc with a flat base and usu a lid, for holding solids
boxer	person who boxes, esp as a sport
boxing	 n. sport of fighting with the fists . `boxing-glove n either of a pair of padded gloves worn for boxing .
boy	male child; son
boycott	v. (usu of a group of people) refuse to have social or commercial relations with (a person, company, country, etc)
boyhood	n. state or time of being a boy
boyish	 adj. of or like a boy
brace	device that clamps things together or holds and supports them in position
bracelet	 n. ornamental band worn on the wrist or arm
bracing	adj. invigorating; stimulating
bracket	wooden or metal angle-shaped support fixed to or built into a wall to hold a shelf, etc ,
brackish	 adj. slightly salty
brae	 n. steep slope; hillside ;
brag	 v. ~ (about/of sth) talk with too much pride (about sth); boast
braggadocio	b:arrogant pretension:COCKINESS
braggart	 n. person who brags
braid	number of threads of silk, cotton, etc woven together in a narrow band for decorating clothes and material
braided	Produced by or as if by braiding
braiding	 braids collectively
brain	organ of the body that controls thought, memory and feeling, consisting of a mass of soft grey matter inside the head
brake	n. device for reducing the speed of or stopping a car, bicycle, train, etc
branch	arm-like division of a tree, growing from the trunk or from a bough
brand	particular make of goods or their trade mark
brandish	 v. wave in a triumphant or threatening way; display
brandy	 n. strong alcoholic drink distilled from wine or fermented fruit-juice
brash	(of a person, his manner, etc) confident in a rude or aggressive way; impudently self-assertive
brass	bright yellow metal made by mixing copper and zinc
brassy	like brass in colour
brat	 n. child, esp a badly-behaved one
brattish	 an ill-mannered annoying child
bravado	n. display of boldness
brave	(of a person) ready to face and endure danger, pain or suffering; having no fear; courageous
bravery	n. being brave; courage
bravo	interj, n shout of approval, esp to an actor or a performer
bravura	n. brilliant style or technique
brawl	n. noisy quarrel or fight
brawn	strong muscles; muscular strength
brawny	 adj. strong and muscular
bray	 n. cry of a donkey
braze	To make of or ornament with brass.
brazen	shameless; insolent
brazenly	 adv. shamelessly
brazier	n. open metal framework for holding a charcoal or coal fire
breach	breaking or neglect
bread	food made of flour, water and usu yeast, kneaded and then baked
breadth	distance or measurement from side to side; width
break	v. ~ (in/into sth) (of a whole object) separate into two or more parts as a result of force or strain (but not by cutting)
breakdown	mechanical failure
breaker	large wave that breaks into foam as it moves towards the shore
breakfast	first meal of the day
breakthrough	act of breaking through an enemy's defences
breast	either of the two parts of a woman's body that produce milk
breath	puff) air taken into and sent out of the lungs
breathe	take air into the lungs and send it out again
breathtaking	 adj. very exciting; spectacular
bred	 pt, pp of breed
breech	 n. back part of a gun barrel where the bullet or shell is placed
breed	(of animals) produce young
breeder	n. person who breeds animals
breeze	light wind
breezeway	n. covered, often enclosed, passageway between two buildings ,
brethren	 n. brothers
breviary	 n. book of prayers to be said daily by Roman Catholic priests
brevity	shortness or briefness
bribe	n. thing given, offered or promised to sb to influence or persuade him to do sth for the giver
bric-a-brac	n. ornaments, trinkets and small items of furniture of little value
brick	baked or dried clay used for building
bricklayer	 a person trained or skilled in laying brick
bride	n. woman on or just before her wedding-day; newly married woman ;
bridegroom	 n. man on or just before his wedding-day; newly married man
bridge	structure of wood, iron, concrete, etc, providing a way across a river, road, railway, etc
bridle	 n. part of a horse's harness that goes on its head, including the metal bit for the mouth, the straps and the reins
brief	lasting only a short time; short
briefly	for a short time
brigade	army unit, usu of three battalions, forming part of a division
brigadier	n. officer in the British Army between the ranks of colonel and major general, commanding a brigade; staff officer having similar status , ; .
brigand	n. member of a band of robbers, esp one attacking travellers in forests and mountains ,
bright	giving out or reflecting much light; shining
brighten	 v. ~ (up) (cause sth/sb to) become brighter, more cheerful or more hopeful
brightness	 n.
brilliance	ns
brilliant	very bright; sparkling
brilliantly	adv.
brim	top edge of a cup, bowl, glass, etc
brimful	adj. ~ full to the brim (with sth)
brimming	 [ brim: ] the upper rim of a vessel
brimstone	sulphur
brindled	 adj. brown with streaks of another colour
brine	very salty water used esp for pickling
bring	v. ~ sb/sth (with one); ~ sth (for sb) come carrying sth or accompanied by sb
brink	edge at the top of a steep high place, eg a cliff
brisk	quick; active; energetic
bristle	short stiff hair
bristling	rising like bristles; showing irritation
Britain	n. = Great Britain
Briticism	A word, idiom, or phrase characteristic of Great Britain or the British.
British	of the United Kingdom or its inhabitants
brittle	hard but easily broken; fragile
brittleness	n.
broach	make a hole in to draw off the liquid inside; open (a bottle, etc) to use the contents
broad	large in size from one side to the other; wide
broadcast	send out (programmes) by radio or television
broaden	v. ~ (cause sth to) become broader
brocade	n. fabric woven with a raised pattern, esp of gold or silver threads
brochure	 n. booklet or pamphlet containing information about sth or advertising sth
brogan	 A coarse, heavy shoe.
brogue	 n. strong outdoor shoe with thick soles and a pattern in the leather
broil	cook (meat) on a fire or gridiron; grill
broke	pt of break1
broken	 pp of break1
broker	person who buys and sells things for others; middleman
brokerage	n. broker's fee or commission
bromide	chemical compound of bromine, used in medicine to calm the nerves
bromine	n. chemical element, a non-metallic liquid, compounds of which are used in medicine and photography .
bronchitic	 adj. suffering from or prone to bronchitis
bronchitis	 n. inflammationof the mucous membrane inside the bronchial tubes
bronchus	 Either of the two subdivisions of the trachea conveying air into the lungs.
bronze	alloy of copper and tin
brooch	 n. ornament with a hinged pin and clasp, worn on women's clothes ,
brood	all the young birds or other animals produced at one hatching or birth
brook	n. small stream
broom	n. shrub with yellow or white flowers growing esp on sandy ground
brother	man or boy having the same parents as another person
brotherhood	relationship of brothers
brought	pt, pp of bring
brouhaha	 n. noisy excitement or commotion
brow	= eyebrow
browbeat	 v. ~ sb (into doing sth) frighten sb with stern looks and words; bully ; intimidate
browbeaten	 adj. frightened through constant bullying
brown	having the colour of toasted bread, or coffee mixed with milk
browse	examine books in a casual, leisurely way
bruise	 n. injury caused by a blow to the body or to a fruit, discolouring the skin but not breaking it
bruised	to injure (tissues) without breaking the skin, usually with discoloration, or (of tissues) to be injured in this way
bruit	v. ~ sth abroad/about (fml or joc ) spread (a rumour or report)
brunt	n. bear the brunt of sth
brush	implement with bristles of hair, wire, nylon, etc set in a block of wood, etc and used for scrubbing, sweeping, cleaning, painting, tidying the hair, etc
brushwork	n. particular way in which an artist paints with a brush
brusque	adj. rough and abrupt; curt
brutal	 adj. cruel; savage; merciless
brutality	brutal behaviour; cruelty; savagery ;
brute	animal, esp a large or fierce one
brutish	adj. of or like a brute
bubble	floating ball formed of liquid and containing air or gas
buccaneer	pirate
buck	male deer, hare or rabbit
bucket	round open container with a handle for carrying or holding liquids, sand, etc
buckle	metal or plastic clasp with a hinged spike for fastening a belt or straps
buckskin	 n. soft leather made from the skin of deer or goats, used for making gloves, bags, etc
bucolic	adj. of country life or the countryside; rustic ;
bud	small knob from which a flower, branch or cluster of leaves develops
Buddhism	 n. Asian religion based on the teachings of the N Indian philosopher Gautama Siddartha or Buddha
budge	(cause sth to) move slightly
budget	estimate or plan of how money will be spent over a period of time, in relation to the amount of money available
budgetary	adj. of a budget
buff	strong soft dull-yellow leather
buffalo	n. large ox of various kinds, including the wild S African buffalo, the tame (often domesticated) Asian buffalo and the N American bison
buffer	device for lessening the effect of a blow or collision, esp on a railway vehicle or at the end of a railway track ,
buffet	counter where food and drink may be bought and consumed, esp in a railway station or on a train
buffoon	n. ridiculous but amusing person; clown
buffoonery	 n. ridiculous behaviour; clowning ;
bug	small flat foul-smelling insect infesting dirty houses and beds
bugaboo	bugbear; object of baseless terror
buggy	small strongly-built motor vehicle
bugle	n. brass musical instrument like a small trumpet but without keys or valves, used for giving military signals .
build	~ sth (of/from/out of sth); ~ sth (for sb) make or construct sth by putting parts or material together
builder	person who builds, esp one whose job is building houses, etc
building	constructing houses, etc
built	having the specified build
built-in	 adj. constructed to form part of a structure
bulb	thick rounded underground stem of certain plants sending roots downwards and leaves upwards
bulbous	growing from a bulb
bulge	rounded swelling; outward curve
bulk	size, quantity or volume, esp when great
bull	uncastrated male of any animal in the ox family
bulldoze	remove or flatten with a bulldozer
bulldozer	n. powerful tractor with a broad steel blade in front, used for moving earth or clearing ground .
bullet	small missile, usu round or cylindrical with a pointed end, fired from a gun or rifle
bulletin	short official statement of news
bullfight	n. traditional public entertainment, esp in Spain and S America, in which bulls are baited and usu killed in the arena
bullion	n. gold or silver in bulk or bars, before it is made into coins, etc
bullock	n. bull that has been castrated
bully	n. person who uses his strength or power to frighten or hurt weaker people
bulrush	n. type of tall rushwith a thick velvety head
bulwark	wall, esp of earth, built as a defence
bum	n. part of the body on which one sits; buttocks
bumble	~ (about sth) speak in a rambling and clumsy manner
bumbling	 adj. behaving in a clumsy disorganized way
bump	~ against/into sb/sth knock or strike sth with a dull-sounding blow; collide with sth
bumper	 n. bar fixed to the front and back of a motor vehicle to lessen the effect of a collision .
bumpkin	n. awkward or simple person from the country
bumptious	adj. (of a person, his manner, etc) self-important and conceited
bunch	number of things growing, fastened or grouped together
bundle	collection of things fastened or wrapped together
bung	 n. stopper for closing the hole in a barrel or jar
bungle	 v. do badly or clumsily; spoil (a task) through lack of skill
bungler	n. person who bungles
buoy	floating object anchored to the bottom of the sea, a river, etc to mark places that are dangerous for boats or to show where boats may go, etc
buoyancy	 cheerfulness that bubbles to the surface ; the property of something weightless and insubstantial
buoyant	(of an object) able to float
burden	thing or person that is carried; heavy load
burdensome	 adj. hard to bear; troublesome
bureau	(Brit) writing desk with drawers
bureaucracy	system of government through departments managed by State officials, not by elected representatives
bureaucratic	 adj. of, like or relating to a bureau-cracy or bureaucrats
bureaucratization [ bureaucratize: ] to administer by or transform into a bureaucracy
	bureaucratization [ bureaucratize: ] to administer by or transform into a bureaucracy
burgeon	(of a plant) put out leaves; sprout
burgeoning	(of a plant) to sprout (buds)
burgess	In colonial times, a member of the lower house of the legislature of Maryland or Virginia.
burgher	n. (esp respectable) citizen of a particular town
burglar	n. person who enters a building illegally, esp by force, in order to steal
burgle	 v. steal from (a house or person) after entering a building illegally
burial	 n. burying, esp of a dead body; funeral
burlesque	comic or exaggerated imitation; parody
burly	adj. with a strong heavy body; sturdy
burn	 n. small stream
burner	part of a gas lamp, oven, etc from which the light or flame comes
burnish	v. make smooth and shiny by rubbing; polish
burra	to make shiny or lustrous especially by rubbing
burrow	 n. hole made in the ground and used as a home or shelter by rabbits, foxes, etc
bursar	person who manages the finances of a school or college
burst	(cause sth to) break violently open or apart, esp because of pressure from inside; explode
bury	place (a dead body) in a grave or in the sea
bus	large vehicle carrying passengers between stopping-places along a fixed route
bush	low thickly-growing plant with several woody stems coming up from the root; shrub
bushed	 adj. very tired
bushel	measure for grain and fruit , 836.4
business	one's usual occupation; profession
busman	 n. a busman's `holiday holiday spent doing the same thing that one does at work
bust	sculpture of a person's head, shoulders and chest
bustle	move busily and energetically (in the specified direction)
bustling	to hurry or cause to hurry with a great show of energy or activity
busy	 adj. ~ (at/with sth); ~ (doing sth) having much to do; working (on sth); occupied (with sth)
busybody	 n. person who interferes in other people's affairs
but	only
butcher	person whose job is killing animals for food or cutting up and selling meat
butt	large cask or barrel for storing wine or beer
butte	A conspicuous hill, low mountain, or natural turret, generally isolated.
butter	fatty food substance, made from cream by churning, that is spread on bread, etc or used in cooking
butterfly	insect with a long thin body and four wings .
button	knob or disc made of wood, metal, etc sewn onto a garment as a fastener or as an ornament
buttress	support built against a wall .
buxom	adj. (of women) plump and healthy-looking; having a large bosom ;
buy	v. ~ sth (for sb) obtain (sth) by giving money; purchase
buyer	person who buys
buzz	make a humming sound
buzzard	n. type of large hawk .
by	near
bygone	 adj. past
byline	 n. line at the beginning or end of an article in a newspaper, etc, giving the writer's name
bypass	road by which traffic can go round a city, busy area, etc instead of through it
by-product	substance produced during the making of sth else
byre	 cowshed
bystander	n. person standingnear, but not taking part, when sth happens; onlooker
Byzantine	of Byzantium or the E Roman Empire
cabal	n. secret political plot
cabbage	any of various types of vegetable with green or purple leaves, usu forming a round head .
cabin	small room or compartment on a ship, an aircraft or a spacecraft
cabinet	piece of furniture with drawers or shelves for storing or displaying things
cable	thick strong rope made of fibre or wire, used esp for tying up ships ,
cache	n. place for hiding food, treasure or weapons
cachet	respect or admiration that sb gets because of his reputation or his achievements; prestige
cacophonous	(adj.) sounding jarring
cacophony	n. loud unpleasant mixture of discordant sounds
cactus	 n. any of various types of plants growing in hot dry regions, with thick fleshy stems and usu prickles, but no leaves .
cad	n. man who behaves dishonourably
cadaver	n. dead body of a person; corpse ;
cadaverous	 adj. looking like a corpse; very pale and gaunt ;
cadence	rhythm in sound
cadenza	n. elaborate passage played by the soloist, usu near the end of a movement in a concerto
cadet	n. young person training to become a policeman or an officer in the armed forces
cadge	v. ~ (from sb) (sometimes derog ) get or try to get (sth) (from sb) by asking, often unreasonably
cafe	 n. small inexpensive restaurant serving light meals and drinks
cafeteria	n. restaurant in which customers collect their meals on trays from a counter
caffeine	 n. stimulant drug found in tea leaves and coffee beans
cage	put or keep in a cage
cagey	adj. ~ (about sth) (infml ) cautious about giving information; wary; secretive
caisson	large watertight box or chamber in which men can work under water
caitiff	Cowardly.
cajole	 v. ~ sb(into/out of sth); ~ sb (into/out of doing sth) persuade sb (to do sth) by flattery or deceit; coax sb
cajolery	 n.
cake	sweet food made from a mixture of flour, eggs, butter, sugar, etc baked in a certain shape or size and usu iced or decorated
calamitous	 adj. ~ involving or causing a calamity; disastrous ;
calamity	 n. serious misfortune or disaster
calcification	n.
calcify	v. (cause sth to) harden by a deposit of calcium salts
calcium	n. chemical element, a greyish-white metal found as a compound in bones, teeth and chalk .
calculable	 adj. that can be calculated
calculate	work out by using numbers or one's judgement; estimate
calculated	 undertaken after considering the likelihood of success or failure
calculating	adj. selfishly scheming; shrewd
calculation	calculating
calculator	small electronic device for making mathematical calculations
calculus	 n. branch of mathematics, divided into two parts (differential calculus and integral calculus), that deals with problems involving rates of variation
caldron	= cauldron
calendar	chart showing the days, weeks and months of a particular year
calf	 n. young of cattle
caliber	ability; capacity
calibrate	v. mark or correct the units of measurement on
calibration	action of calibrating
calibre	diameter of the inside of a tube or gun-barrel
caliper	= calliper
calipers	 metal supports attached to the legs/measuring instrument
call	shout; cry
call ??into question 
	call ??into question 
caller	 n. person who makes a brief visit or a telephone call
calligrapher	 one who writes a beautiful
calligraphy	n. beautiful handwriting
callosity	n. area of hardened skin; callus
callous	cruelly insensitive or unsympathetic
calloused	adj. hardened; having calluses
callow	 adj. immature and inexperienced
callus	 n. area of thick hardened skin
calm	(of the sea) without large waves; still
calming	[ calm: ] almost without motion; still
calmness	 n.
calorie	unit for measuring a quantity of heat
calorific	adj. of or producing heat
calorimeter	an apparatus for measuring amounts of heat, esp. to find specific heat capacities, calorific values, etc.
calumniate	 v. slander (sb)
calumnious	 adj. slanderous
calumny	false statement about sb, made to damage his character
calvary	The place where Christ was crucified.
calves	 pl of calf1, calf
Calvinism	n. religious teaching of the French Protestant John Calvin and of his followers , 1509-1564,
calvinist	n. follower of Calvin's teaching
camaraderie	n. friendship and mutual trust; comradeship ;
came	 pt of come
camel	animal with a long neck and one or two humps on its back, used in desert countries for riding and for carrying goods .
cameo	small piece of hard stone with a raised design, esp one with two coloured layers so that the background is of a different colour from the design
camera	apparatus for taking photographs, moving pictures or television pictures
camouflage	way of hiding or disguising soldiers, military equipment, etc, eg with paint, netting or leaves, so that they look like part of their surroundings
camp	place where people (eg holiday-makers, Scouts or explorers) live temporarily in tents or huts
campaign	series of military operations with a particular aim, usu in one area
campanology	n. study of bells and the art of bell-ringing
campus	grounds and buildings of a university or college
can	n. metal or plastic container for holding or carrying liquids
Canaanite	A member of one of the three tribes that dwelt in the land of Canaan, or western Palestine.
Canada	 a country in North America: the second largest country in the world; first permanent settlements made by the French from 1605
Canadian	 n, adj of Canada
canal	channel cut through land for boats or ships to travel along, or to carry water for irrigation
canard	 n. false report or rumour
canary	 n. small yellow songbird, usu kept in a cage as a pet
cancel	say that (sth already arranged and decided upon) will not be done or take place; call off
cancer	the fourth sign of the zodiac, the Crab
cancerous	n. of, like or affected with cancer
candela	n. unit for measuring the intensity of light
candid	 adj. not hiding one's thoughts; frank and honest
candidacy	[ candidate: ] a person seeking or nominated for election to a position of authority or honour or selection for a job, promotion, etc.
candidate	person who applies for a job or is nominated for election
candidature	n. being a candidate
candle	round stick of wax with a wick through it which is lit to give light as it burns .
candor	 unreserved, honest, or sincere expression:FORTHRIGHTNESS
candy	sugar hardened by repeated boiling
cane	hollow jointed stem of certain plants, eg bamboo or sugar-cane
canine	 adj. of, like or relating to dogs
canker	disease that destroys the wood of plants and trees
cankerous	adj. of, like or causing canker
cannibal	 n. person who eats human flesh
cannibalism	n. practice of eating one's own kind . cannibalistic/ adj of or like cannibals
cannon	old type of large heavy gun firing solid metal balls
canny	adj. shrewd and careful, esp in business matters
canoe	light narrow boat moved by one or more paddles
canon	general rule, standard or principle by which sth is judged
canonical	according to canon law
canopy	hanging cover forming a shelter above a throne, bed, etc ,
cant	insincere talk, esp about religion or morality; hypocrisy ;
cantankerous	 adj. bad-tempered; quarrelsome ;
cantata	n. short musical work, often on a religious subject, sung by soloists and usu a choir, accompanied by an orchestra
canteen	place serving food and drink in a factory, an office, a school, etc
canter	(of a horse) movement that is faster than a trot but slower than a gallop
canto	n. any of the main divisions of a long poem
cantonment	place where soldiers live
canvas	strong coarse cloth used for making tents, sails, etc and by artists for painting on
canvass	~ (for sth) go around an area asking (people) for (political support)
canyon	 n. deep gorge, usu with a river flowing through it
cap	soft head-covering without a brim but often with a peak, worn by men and boys
capability	~ ~ (for sth) quality of being able to do sth; ability
capable	having ability; able; competent
capably	adv. in a capableway
capacious	adj. that can hold much; roomy
capacitance	the property of a system that enables it to store electric charge
capacitor	a device for accumulating electric charge, usually consisting of two conducting surfaces separated by a dielectric
capacity	ability to hold or contain sth
caparison	n. (formerly) decorated covering for a horse, or for a horse and knight
cape	 n. loose sleeveless garment like a cloak but usu shorter
caper	v. ~ jump or run about playfully
capillary	n. any of the very narrow blood vessels connecting arteries and veins in the body
capital	town or city that is the centre of government of a country, state or province
capitalism	 n. economicsystem in which a country's trade and industry are controlled by private owners for profit, rather than by the State
capitation	 n. tax, fee or grant of an equal amount for each person
capitulate	 v. ~ surrender (to sb), esp on agreed conditions
capitulation	 n. capitulating
caprice	sudden change in attitude or behaviour with no obvious cause; whim ;
capricious	 adj. characterized by sudden changes in attitude or behaviour; unpredictable; impulsive
capriciousness	 n.
capsize	v. overturn or be overturned
capsule	seed-case of a plant that opens when the seeds are ripe
captain	person in charge of a ship or civil aircraft
captaincy	n. position of captain
caption	short title or heading of an article in a magazine, etc ,
captious	 adj. fond of criticizingor raising objections about unimportant matters; quibbling ;
captiously	 adv.
captivate	v. fascinate (sb); charm; enchant
captivating	adj. fascinating; charming
captivation	n.
captive	held as a prisoner; unable to escape
capture	take as a prisoner
car	motor vehicle with (usu four) wheels for carrying passengers
carafe	glass container in which wine or water are served at meals .
carapace	 n. shell on the back of a tortoise or crustacean
carat	unit of weight (
carbohydrate	any of various types of organic compound, such as sugar and starch, containing carbon, hydrogen and oxygen
carbon	non-metallic chemical element that is present in all living matter and occurs in its pure form as diamond and graphite .
carbonate	a salt or ester of carbonic acid. Carbonate salts contain the divalent ion CO32--
carbonated	 adj. containing carbon dioxide; fizzy
carcass	dead body of an animal, esp one prepared for cutting up as meat
carcinogen	 "carcino'genic adjective
carcinogenic	 [ carcinogen: ] "carcino'genic adjective
card	thick stiff paper or thin pasteboard
cardboard	thick stiff type of paper or pasteboard used for making boxes, binding books, etc
cardiac	adj. of or relating to the heart or heart disease
cardigan	 n. knitted woollen jacket, usu with no collar and with buttons at the front
cardinal	 adj. most important; chief; fundamental
cardiologist	 n.
cardiology	 n. branch of medicine concerned with the heart and its diseases
care	~ serious attention or thought
careen	turn on its side (esp for cleaning or repairing)
career	profession or occupation with opportunities for advancement or promotion
carefree	 adj. without responsibilities or worries; cheerful
careful	adj. ~ (about/in) doing sth taking care; cautious
careless	~ not taking care; inattentive; thoughtless
carelessly	 adv.
carelessness	 n.
caress	 n. loving touch or stroke
caret	n. symbol used to show where sth is to be inserted in written or printed material
careworn	 adj. showing signs of much worry
cargo	n. (load of) goods carried in a ship or aircraft
caribou	n. N American reindeer
caricature	 n. picture,description or imitation of sb/sth that exaggerates certain characteristics in order to amuse or ridicule
carillon	set of bells sounded either from a keyboard or mechanically
carmine	adj. n deep red colour
carnage	n. killing of many people
carnal	 adj. of the body; sexual or sensual
carnation	n. garden plant with sweet-smelling white, pink or red flowers
carnival	 n. (period of) public festivities and merry-making occurring at a regular time of year, eg in Roman Catholic countries during the week before Lent
carnivore	n. flesh-eatinganimal
carnivorous	adj. flesh-eating
carol	n. joyful song, esp a Christmas hymn
carousal	 (noisy party with) drinking and merry-making
carouse	v. drink and be merry with others (at a noisy meal, party, etc)
carp	 n. type of large edible freshwater fish that lives in lakes and ponds
carpenter	n. person whose job is making or repairing wooden objects and structures
carpentry	n. art or work of a carpenter
carpet	thick woollen or synthetic fabric for covering floors
carping	adj. tending to make petty complaints; fault-finding
carriage	vehicle (usu with four wheels), pulled by a horse or horses, for carrying people
carrier	person or thing that carries sth
carrion	n. dead and decaying flesh
carrot	plant with a long pointed orange root
carry	support the weight of (sb/sth) and take (him/it) from place to place; take from one place to another
cart	vehicle with two or four wheels used for carrying loads and usu pulled by a horse
cartilage	n. tough white flexible tissue attached to the bones of animals; gristle
cartographer	 n. person who draws maps and charts
cartography	n. art of drawing maps and charts
cartoon	amusing drawing in a newspaper or magazine, esp one that comments satirically on current events
cartoonist	 n. person who draws cartoons
cartridge	tube or case containing explosive (for blasting), or explosive with a bullet or shot (for firing from a gun)
carve	~ (in sth); ~ sth (out of/from/of/in sth) form (sth) by cutting away material from wood or stone
caryatid	 n. statue of a female figure used as a supporting pillar in a building
cascade	waterfall, esp one of a series forming a large waterfall
case	instance or example of the occurrence of sth
cash	money in coins or notes
cashier	n. person whose job is to receive and pay out money in a bank, shop, hotel, etc
cassette	 n. small sealed case containing a reel of film or magnetic tape
cast	throw (sth), esp deliberately or with force
caste	any of the hereditary Hindu social classes
castigate	n. scold, criticize or punish (sb) severely
castigation	severe punishment
castle	 large fortified building or group of buildings with thick walls, towers, battlements and sometimes a moat
castrate	 v. remove the testicles of (a male animal or person); geld
casual	happening by chance
casualty	person who is killed or injured in war or in an accident
casuistry	n. resolving of moral problems, esp by the use of clever but false reasoning; sophistry ;
cat	small furry domesticated animal often kept as a pet or for catching mice
cataclysm	n. sudden violentchange or disaster, eg a flood, an earthquake, a revolution or a war
cataclysmic	adj. the cataclysmic events of 1939-45 1939-1945
catalog	[ catalogue: ] a complete, usually alphabetical list of items, often with notes giving details
catalogue	complete list of items, usu in a special order and with a description of each
catalysis	n. process of speeding up a chemical reaction with a catalyst
catalyst	substance that speeds up a chemical reaction without itself changing
catalytic	adj. of or causing catalysis
catalyze	 vt. to modify, especially to increase, the rate of (a chemical reaction) by catalysis
catapult	Y-shaped stick with a piece of elastic attached to it, used esp by children for shooting stones .
cataract	large steep waterfall
catastrophe	n. sudden great disaster or misfortune
catastrophic	 [ catastrophe: ] a sudden, extensive, or notable disaster or misfortune
catcall	n. shrill whistle expressing disapproval
catch	v. stop and hold (a moving object) esp in the hands
catechism	n. summary of the principles of a religion in the form of questions and answers
categorical	adj. unconditional; absolute; explicit
category	 n. class or group of things in a complete system of grouping
cater	~ (for sth/sb) provide food and services, esp at social functions
caterer	person whose job is providing food for large social events
caterpillar	larva of a butterfly or moth
catharsis	n. (instance of the) release of strong feelings through the effect of art, esp drama
cathartic	n. purgative drug
cathedral	n. main church of a district under the care of a bishop
cathode	n. negative electrode, by which an electric current leaves a device such as a battery
catholic	= Roman Catholic (Roman)
Catholicism	n. = Roman Catholicism (Roman)
catholicity	n. universalityor breadth
cattle	 n. animals with horns and cloven hoofs such as cows, bulls and bullocks, bred for their milk or meat; oxen
caucus	(meeting of the) parliamentary members of a particular political party or any other legislature
caught	 pt, pp of catch
caulk	v. make (esp a boat) watertight by filling the seams or joints with waterproof material
causal	of or forming a cause; relating to cause and effect ;
causality	n. relationship between cause and effect
cause	that which produces an effect; thing, event, person, etc that makes sth happen
caustic	that can burn or destroy things by chemical action
caustically	adv. in a causticway
cauterize	burn with hot iron or caustic
caution	being careful to avoid danger or mistakes; prudence
cautionary	 adj. giving advice or a warning
cautious	 adj. ~ showing or having caution(1); careful
cavalcade	n. procession of people on horseback, in cars, etc
cavalier	Cavalier supporter of Charles I in the English Civil War
cavalry	n. soldiers fighting on horseback or in armoured vehicles
cave	 n. hollow place in the side of a cliff or hill, or underground
caveat	warning; proviso
cave-in	n. sudden collapse of a roof, etc
caveman	person living in caves, esp in prehistoric times
cavern	 n. cave, esp a large or dark one
cavil	v. ~ (at sth) (fml ) make unnecessary complaints (about sth)
cavity	 n. empty space within sth solid, eg a hole in a tooth ,
cavort	 v. ~ jump about excitedly
cease	come or bring (sth) to an end; stop
cede	 v. ~ sth give up one's rights to or possession of sth
ceil	 vt. to line (a ceiling) with plaster, boarding, etc.
ceiling	top inner surface of a room
celebrate	mark (a happy or important day, event, etc) with festivities and rejoicing
celebrated	 adj. ~ famous
celebration	n. celebrating
celebrity	famous person
celerity	 n. quickness
celestial	of the sky
celibacy	 n. living unmarried, esp for religious reasons
celibate	remaining unmarried, esp for religious reasons
cell	very small room, eg for a monk in a monastery or for one or more prisoners in a prison
cellar	underground room for storing things
cellist	n. person who plays the cello
cello	n. stringed musical instrument like a large violin, held between the knees by a seated player .
cellular	of or consisting of cells (cell 4)
cement	grey powder, made by burning lime and clay, that sets hard after mixing with water and is used in building to stick bricks together or for making very hard surfaces
cemetery	 n. area of land, not a churchyard, used for burying the dead ,
censor	person authorized toexamine books, films, plays, letters, etc and remove partswhich are considered indecent, offensive, politically unacceptable or a threat to security
censorious	 adj. tending to find faults in people or things; severely critical ;
censorship	 n. act or policy of censoring books, etc
censure	v. ~ sb criticize sb severely; rebuke sb formally
census	 n. official counting of a country's population or of other classes of things, eg traffic, for statistical purposes
cent	 n. one 100th part of a US dollar or of certain other metric units of currency
centaur	n. one of a tribe of creatures with a man's head, arms and upper body on a horse's body and legs
centenarian	n, adj 100 years old or more
centenary	n. 100th anniversary of sth 100
centennial	 n. = centenary
center	 = centre
centigrade	 adj. of or using a temperature scale with the freezing-point of water at 0 and the boiling-point at 100
centiliter	 A hundredth of a liter.
centimeter	 A length of one hundredth of a meter.
centimetre	 n. one 100th part of a metre .
centipede	n. small crawling insect-like creature with a long thin body, numerous joints and a pair of legs at each joint
central	of, at, near or forming the centre of sth
centralization	 [ centralize: ] to draw or move (something) to or towards a centre
centralize	 to draw or move (something) to or towards a centre
centre	point that is equally distant from all sides of sth; middle point or part of sth
centrifugal	adj. moving away from the centre or axis
centrifuge	 n. rotating machine using centrifugal force to separate substances, eg milk and cream
centripetal	adj. moving towards the centre or axis
centurion	n. officer commanding a unit of 100 soldiers
century	period of 100 years 100
cephalic	 of or relating to the head
ceramic	adj. of or relating to pottery
ceramics	art of making and decorating pottery
cereal	 n. any of various types of grass producing edible grains, eg wheat, rye, oats, barley .
cerebral	of the brain
cerebrate	(usually facetious)
cerebration	n. working of the brain; thinking ;
cerebrum	 anterior portion of the brain consisting of two hemispheres; dominant part of the brain in humans
ceremonial	 adj. of, used for or involving a ceremony; formal
ceremonious	adj. full of ceremony; very formal ;
ceremoniousness	[ ceremonious: ] especially or excessively polite or formal
ceremony	formal act or series of formal acts performed on a religious or public occasion
certain	~ ~ (to do sth) sure beyond doubt; that can be relied on
certainly	without doubt; definitely
certainty	thing that is certain
certificate	n. official written or printed statement that may be used as proof or evidence of certain facts
certification	n. action of certifying or state of being certified
certitude	n. feeling of certainty; lack of doubt ;
cessation	n. action or act of ceasing; pause
cession	n. action of ceding sth, esp land or rights
cetacean	 of or relating to whales and dolphins etc
chafe	~ become irritated or impatient (because of sth)
chaff	outer covering of corn, etc, separated from the grain by threshing or winnowing
chaffing	 (n.) banter; teasing
chagrin	n. feeling of disappointment or annoyance
chagrined	feeling or caused to feel uneasy and self-conscious
chain	(length of) connected metal links or rings, used for hauling or supporting weights or for fastening or restraining things
chair	moveable seat with a back and sometimes with arms, for one person to sit on
chairman	 person in charge of a meeting
chalice	n. large cup for holding wine, esp one from which consecrated wine is drunk at the Eucharist
chalk	type of soft white rock used for burning to make lime
chalky	 adj. of or like chalk
challenge	~ (to do sth) invitation or call (to sb) to take part in a game, contest, fight etc to prove who is better, stronger, more able, etc
challenger	 n. person who challenges, esp in sport
challenging	adj. offering problems that test sb's ability; stimulating
chamber	room, esp a bedroom ,
chambermaid	n. woman whose job is cleaning and tidying bedrooms, usu in a hotel
chameleon	any of various types of small lizard that can change colour according to its surroundings
champ	chew (food) noisily
champagne	sparkling white wine from E France
champion	person, team, animal or plant that has defeated or excelled all others in a competition
championship	contest to decide who is the champion
chance	way in which things happen without any cause that can be seen or understood; luck; fortune
chancellor	head of government in Austria etc
chancery	Lord Chancellor's division of the High Court of Justice
chandelier	 n. ornamental hanging light with branches for several bulbs or candles
change	become different; alter
changeability	[ changeable: ] able to change or be changed; fickle
changeable	tending to change; often changing
channel	sunken bed of a river, stream or canal
chant	simple tune to which psalms or canticles are fitted by singing several syllables or words to the same note
chantey	a ramshackle hut; crude dwelling
chaos	n. complete disorder or confusion
chaotic	adj. in a state of chaos; completely disorganized
chap	 v. (of the skin) become cracked, rough or sore
chapel	small building or room used for Christian worship, eg in a school, prison, large private house, etc
chaperon	 n. older person, usu a woman, who looks after a girl or a young unmarried woman on social occasions
chaplain	 n. clergyman attached to the chapel of a school, prison, etc, or serving in the armed forces
chaplaincy	 n. position, period of office or house of a chaplain
chapter	(usu numbered) division of a book
char	 v. (cause sth to) become black by burning; scorch
character	mental or moral qualities that make a person, group, nation, etc different from others
characteristic	 adj. ~ forming part of the character(1a) of a person or thing; typical
characteristics	[ characteristic: ] a distinguishing quality, attribute, or trait
characteristics in common 
	characteristics in common 
characterization description of character, traits, etc.
	characterization description of character, traits, etc.
characterize	 To describe by distinctive marks or peculiarities.
characterless	adj. without character(2a); uninteresting; ordinary
charade	charades game in which one team acts a series of little plays containing syllables of a word which the other team tries to guess
charades	 a parlour game in which one team acts out each syllable of a word, the other team having to guess the word
charcoal	black substance made by burning wood slowly in an oven with a little air, used as a filtering material or as fuel or for drawing
charge	claim that a person has done wrong, esp a formal claim that he has committed a crime; accusation
charisma	power to inspire devotion and enthusiasm
charismatic	having charisma
charitable	,
charity	loving kindness towards others
charlatan	n. person who falsely claims to have special knowledge or skill, esp in medicine
charm	power of pleasing, fascinating or attracting people; attractiveness
charmer	n. person who charms people of the opposite sex
charming	 adj. delightful
chart	detailed map used to help navigation at sea, showing coasts, rocks, the depth of the sea, etc
charter	written statement by a ruler or a government granting certain rights and privileges to a town, company, university, etc
chartered	adj. qualified according to the rules of a professional association which has a royal charter
chary	cautious; wary
chase	~ sb/sth run after in order to capture or overtake sb/sth
chasm	deep opening in the ground; abyss; gorge ;
chassis	n. framework on which the body and working parts of a vehicle, radio or television are built , ; .
chaste	not having had sexual intercourse; virgin ;
chasten	punish in order to correct or improve; discipline ;
chastise	 v. punish (sb) severely, esp by beating
chastisement	 n. severe punishment
chastity	 n. being chaste (1
chat	 n. friendly informal conversation
chateau	n. castle or large country house in France
chattel	n. sb's goods and chattels
chatter	~ (about sth) talk quickly, continuously or foolishly about unimportant matters
chatterbox	 n. talkative person, esp a child
chauvinism	aggressiveand irrational belief that one's own country is better than all others
chauvinist	 n, adj displaying or feeling chauvinism
chauvinistic	 adj.
cheap	low in price; costing little money
cheat	~ act dishonestly or unfairly in order to win an advantage or profit
check	~ (up) make sure of sth by examining or investigating it
checkbook	n. = cheque-book (cheque)
checker	n. person who checks
checkered	adj. chequered
checkering	 [ checker: ] the usual U.S. spelling of: chequer
checkmate	situation in which one player cannot prevent the capture of his king and the other player is therefore the winner
cheek	either side of the face below the eye
cheer	give shouts of joy, praise, support or encouragement to
cheerful	in good spirits; happy
cheerfulness	 n.
cheerless	adj. gloomy; dreary
cheese	food made from milk curds
cheetah	n. African wild animal of the cat family with black spots and long legs, and able to run very fast ,
chef	 n. professional cook, esp the chief cook in a restaurant
chemical	of or relating to chemistry
chemist	person who prepares and sells medicines, and usu also sells cosmetics, toiletries, etc; pharmacist
chemistry	scientific study of the structure of substances, how they react when combined or in contact with one another, and how they behave under different conditions
cheque	order to a bank to pay a sum of money from one's account to another person
chequer	n. pattern of squares, usu of alternate colours .
cherish	protect or tend lovingly; care for ;
cherished	[ cherish: ] to show great tenderness for; treasure
cherry	small soft round fruit containing a stone .
cherub	(Bible ) one of the second highest order of angels, usu represented in paintings as a plump child with wings .
cherubic	 adj. with a plump and innocent face
chess	n. game for two people, played on a board with pieces that are moved in an attempt to checkmate the opponent's king .
chest	large strong box for storing or shipping things in
chestnut	(also `chestnut tree) any of various types of tree producing smooth reddish-brown nuts enclosed in prickly cases (those of some types being edible)
chesty	 adj. tending to suffer from or showing the symptoms of bronchial disease
chevron	n. bent line or stripe in the shape of a normal or upside-down V, worn by a policeman or soldier to show his rank `^
chew	~ sth work or grind (food) between the teeth
chiaroscuro	treatment of the light and dark parts in a painting
chic	 adj. elegant and stylish
chicanery	use of clever but misleading talk in order to trick sb, esp in legal matters; dishonest practice
Chicano	-nos)
chick	young bird, esp a young chicken, just before or after hatching
chicken	young bird, esp of the domestic fowl
chide	v. ~ sb (for sth) (dated or fml ) rebuke; scold
chief	leader or ruler, esp of a tribe or clan
chiffon	n. thin, almost transparent fabric made of silk, nylon, etc
child	young human being below the age of puberty; boy or girl
childhood	condition or period of being a child
childish	 (characteristic) of a child
childless	adj. having no children
chill	unpleasant coldness in the air, in the body, in water, etc
chilly	rather cold; unpleasantly cold
chimera	imaginary monster made up of parts of several different animals
chimerical	 adj. unreal; fanciful
chimney	structure through which smoke or steam is carried away from a fire, furnace, etc and through the roof or wall of a building
chimpanzee	 n. type of small African ape .
chin	part of the face below the mouth; front part of the lower jaw
china	fine baked and glazed white clay; porcelain
chine	n. animal's backbone
Chinese	of, relating to, or characteristic of China, its people, or their languages
chink	narrow opening; crack; slit
chinless	having a small chin, regarded as a sign of a weak character
chip	thin piece cut or broken off from wood, stone, china, glass, etc
chipmunk	 n. small striped squirrel-like N American animal
chiromancy	 art of telling fortunes by reading the hand; palmistry
chiropodist	(US podiatrist)n person whose job is treating or preventing minor disorders of people's feet
chiropody	n. such treatment
chirp	n. short sharp sound made by a small bird or a cricket
chisel	 n. tool with a sharp cutting edge at the end, for shaping wood, stone or metal
chit	young child
chivalrous	showing the qualities of a perfect knight
chivalry	(in the Middle Ages) ideal qualities expected of a knight, such as courage, honour, courtesy and concern for the weak and helpless
chlorine	 n. chemical element, a poisonous greenish-yellow gas with a pungent smell, used to sterilize water and in industry .
chlorophyll	n. green substance in plants that absorbs energy from sunlight to help them grow
chocolate	brown edible substance in the form of powder or a block, made from roasted and crushed cacao seeds
choice	~ act of choosing between two or more possibilities
choir	organized group of singers, esp one that performs in church services
choke	~ be unable to breathe because one's windpipe is blocked by sth
cholera	n. infectious and often fatal disease causing severe diarrhoea and vomiting, common in hot countries
choleric	 adj. easily angered; bad-tempered ;
chomp	to chew (food) noisily; champ
chondrite	adjectiv
choose	~ (between A and/or B); ~ (A) (from B); ~ sb/sth as sth pick out or select (sb/sth that one prefers or considers the best, most suitable, etc) from a number of alternatives
chop	~ sth (up) (into sth) cut sth into pieces with an axe, a knife, etc
choppy	 adj. (of the sea) moving in short broken waves; slightly rough
choral	 adj. of, composed for or sung by a choir
chorale	hymn sung by a choir and congregation together, as part of a church service
chord	n. combination of notes usu sounded together in harmony
chore	small routine task
choreograph	v. design and arrange steps and dances for
choreographer	n.
choreography	 n. steps for ballet and dancing on stage
chortle	n. loud chuckle of pleasure or amusement
chorus	group of singers; choir
Christ	 n. the founder of the Christian religion
christen	receive into the Christian Church by sprinkling water on his head and giving him a name
Christendom	n. all Christian people throughout the world
christening	n. ceremony in which sb is christened; baptism
Christian	of or based on the teachings of Christ or the doctrines of Christianity
christlike	 adj. like Christ in character or action
Christmas	annual celebration by Christians of the birth of Christ (on
chromatic	of colour
chromosome	 n. any of the tiny threads or rods in animal and plant cells, carrying genes
chromosphere	 adjectiv
chronic	lasting for a long time; continually recurring
chronically	adv: the chronically ill
chronicle	n. record of historical events in the order in which they happened
chronological	adj. arranged in the order in which they occurred
chronology	science of fixing the dates of historical events
chronometer	n. instrument that keeps very accurate time, used esp for navigating at sea
chrysanthemum	n. garden plant with brightly coloured flowers
chubby	 adj. round and plump; slightly fat
chuck	throw (sth) carelessly or casually
chuckle	v. laugh quietly or to oneself
chug	make the short dull repeated sound of an engine running slowly
chum	 n. close friend
chump	foolish person
chunk	thick solid piece cut or broken off sth
chunkily	 adv: He's chunkily built
chunky	having a short thick body; stocky
church	building used for public Christian worship
churl	n. bad-mannered or bad-tempered person
churlish	 adj. It seems churlish to refuse such a generous offer
churlishness	 (n.) crude or surly behavior; behavior of a peasant
churn	machine in which milk or cream is beaten to make butter
chute	sloping or vertical passage down which things can slide or be dropped
cider	drink made from fermented apple-juice
cigar	n. tight roll of tobacco leaves for smoking
cigarette	n. roll of shredded tobacco enclosed in thin paper for smoking
ciliated	 having minute hairs
cinch	easy task
cinder	small piece of partly burnt coal, wood, etc that is no longer burning but may still be hot ,
cineast	a film or movie enthusiast
cinema	building in which motion-picture films are shown
cipher	(method of) secret writing in which a set of letters or symbols is used to represent others; code
circle	curved line every point on which is the same distance from the centre
circlet	n. circular band, eg of precious metal, flowers, etc, worn round the head as an ornament
circuit	line, route or journey round a place
circuitous	 adj. long and indirect; roundabout
circuity	-ties)
circular	shaped like a circle; round ;
circulate	(cause sth to) go round continuously
circulation	movement of blood round the body from and back to the heart
circumference	n. line that marks out a circle or other curved figure1(2b)
circumlocution	 n. use of many words to say sth that could be said in a few words
circumlocutory	 the use of an unnecessarily large number of words to express an idea
circumnavigate	 v. sail round (esp the world)
circumscribe	restrict (sth) within limits; confine
circumspect	adj. considering everything carefully before acting; cautious; wary ;
circumspection	 n. caution; prudence
circumstance	condition or fact connected with an event or action
circumstantial	giving full details
circumstantiality [ circumstantial: ] of or dependent on circumstances
	circumstantiality [ circumstantial: ] of or dependent on circumstances
circumvent	 v. find a way of overcoming or avoiding (sth)
circumvented	 [ circumvent: ] to evade or go around
circumvention	n.
circus	travelling company of entertainers, including acrobats, riders, clowns and performing animals
cistern	an artificial reservoir (as an underground tank) for storing liquids and especially water (as rainwater)
citadel	fortress
citation	 an official summons to appear (as before a court)
cite	 quote; commend
citizen	person who has full rights as a member of a country, either by birth or by being granted such rights
citizenship	n. being a citizen, esp of a particular country, with the rights and duties that involves
city	large and important town
city-state	 n. independent state consisting of a city and the surrounding area (eg Athens in ancient times)
civic	of a town or city; municipal
civil	of or relating to the citizens of a country
civilian	 n. person not serving in the armed forces or the police force
civility	 n. (act of) politeness
civilization	 a human society that has highly developed material and spiritual resources and a complex cultural, political, and legal organization; an advanced state in social development
civilize	 to bring out of savagery or barbarism into a state characteristic of civilization
clack	n. short sharp sound of hard objects being struck together
clad	(dated or fml ) dressed; clothed
claim	demand or request (sth) because it is or one believes it is one's right or one's property
claimant	 n. person who makes a claim
clairvoyance	 n. supposedpower of seeing in the mind either future events or things that exist or are happening out of sight
clairvoyant	n, adj having such power
clam	 n. large shellfish with a hinged shell
clamber	v. climb, esp with difficulty or effort, using the hands and feet
clammy	 adj. unpleasantly moist and sticky; damp
clamor	 shout, complain with a lot of noise
clamorous	adj. making loud demands or protests
clamour	loud confused noise, esp of shouting
clamp	device for holding things tightly together, usu by means of a screw
clampdown	sudden restriction on an activity
clan	group of families, esp in Scotland, descended from a common ancestor
clandestine	adj. done secretly; kept secret; surreptitious
clanger	obvious and embarrassing mistake; gaffe ;
clangor	make a loud resonant noise
clannish	 adj. (of members of a group) associating closely with each other and showing little interest in other people
clap	~ sth (together) strike (the palms of one's hands) together
clapper	piece of metal, etc fixed loosely inside a bell and making it sound by striking the side
clarification	n. clarifying or being clarified
clarify	(cause sth to) become clear or easier to understand
clarion	adj. loud, clear and rousing
clarity	n. clearness; lucidity
clash	~ (together) (cause things to) strike together with a loud, harsh noise
clasp	device for fastening things together
class	group of people at the same social or economic level
classic	having a high quality that is recognized and unquestioned; of lasting value and importance
classical	of, relating to or influenced by the art and literature of ancient Greece and Rome
classics	 the. a body of literature regarded as great or lasting, esp. that of ancient Greece or Rome
classifiable	 adj. that can be classified
classification	classifying or being classified
classify	(a)arrange (sth) systematically in classes or groups
classmate	a friend or contemporary of the same class in a school, college, etc
classroom	a room in which classes are conducted, esp. in a school or colleg
clatter	n. continuous noise of hard objects falling or knocking against each other
clause	group of words that includes a subject1(4a) and a verb, forming a sentence or part of a sentence
claustrophobia	 n. abnormal fear of being in an enclosed space
clavichord	 n. early type of keyboard instrument with a very soft tone
clavicle	 n. collar-bone .
claw	any of the pointed nails (nail1) on the feet of some mammals, birds and reptiles
clay	stiff sticky earth that becomes hard when baked, used for making bricks and pottery
clayey	 adj. like, containing or covered with clay
clean	free from dirt or impurities
cleanliness	n. being clean
cleanly	adv. easily; smoothly
cleanse	v. ~ sb/sth make thoroughly clean
clear	adj. easy to see through; transparent
clearable	[ clear: ] free from darkness or obscurity; bright
clearance	clearing, removing or tidying sth
clear-cut	adj. not vague; definite
clearing	 n. open space from which trees have been cleared in a forest
clearly	in a clear manner; distinctly
cleat	small wooden or metal bar fastened to sth, on which ropes may be fastened by winding
cleavage	split or division
cleave	 v. break or split, esp along a natural line
cleaver	n. heavy knife with a broad blade used by a butcher for chopping meat
cleft	n. crack or split occurring naturally
clemency	mildness (esp of weather)
clement	(esp of weather) mild
clench	close tightly or press (two things) firmly together
clergy	 n. people who have been ordained as priests or ministers of esp the Christian Church
clergyman	n. priest or minister of the Christian Church, esp the Church of England
clerical	of, for or made by a clerkor clerks
clerk	person employed in an office, a shop, etc to keep records, accounts, etc
clever	 adj. quick at learning and understanding things; intelligent
cleverness	 n.
cliche	 n. phrase or idea which is used so often that it has become stale or meaningless
click	n. short sharp sound
client	person who receives help or advice from a professional person
clientele	customers or clients as a group
cliff	n. steep, usu high, face of rock, esp at the edge of the sea .
climacteric	n. period of life when physical powers begin to decline, eg the menopause
climactic	adj. forming a climax
climate	regular pattern of weather conditions (temperature, rainfall, winds, etc) of a particular region
climatic	 adj. of climate
climax	most interesting or significant event or point in time; culmination
climb	go up or over (sth) by effort, esp using one's hands and feet
climber	person who climbs
clime	n. (arch or joc ) country; climate(1b)
clinch	fix firmly in place by hammering sideways the end that sticks out
cling	~ (on) to sb/sth; ~ on; ~ together hold on tightly to sb/sth
clingy	 adj. (infml )
clinic	private or specialized hospital
clinical	of or relating to the examination and treatment of patients and their illnesses
clip	any of various wire or metal devices used for holding things together
clipper	clippers instrument for clipping nails, hair, hedges, etc
clique	 n. small group of people, often with shared interests, who associate closely and exclude others from their group
cliquy	 adj. (of people) tending to form a clique
cloak	sleeveless outer garment hanging loosely from the shoulders, usu worn out of doors
cloakroom	room where coats, hats, etc may be left for a time
clock	instrument for measuring and showing time
clockwise	adv, adj moving in a curve in the same direction as the hands of a clock
clog	 n. shoe made entirely of wood or with a wooden sole
cloister	covered passage around an open court or quadrangle, with a wall on the outer side and columns or arches on the inner side, esp within a convent or college, or attached to a cathedral
cloistered	 secluded or shut up from the world
cloistering	[ cloister: ] a covered walk, usually around a quadrangle in a religious institution, having an open arcade or colonnade on the inside and a wall on the outside
clone	(any of a) group of plants or organisms produced asexually from one ancestor
close	~ (to sb/sth); ~ (together) near in space or time
closed-minded	not easily subdued, remedied, or removed
close-hauled	 adj. (of a sailing-ship) with the sails set for sailing as nearly as possible in the direction from which the wind is blowing
closely	adv. in a close manner
closet	cupboard or small room for storing things
closure	closing or being closed
clot	half-solid lump formed from a liquid, eg from blood when it is exposed to the air
cloth	n. material made by weaving cotton, wool, silk, etc
clothe	 to dress or attire
clothes	n. covering for a person's body; garments
clothier	 One who makes or sells cloth or clothing.
clothing	clothes
cloture	n. = closure
cloud	visible water vapour floating in the sky
cloudburst	 n. sudden and violent rainstorm
cloudiness	 n.
cloudy	covered with clouds
clout	heavy blow with the hand or a hard object
clove	pt of cleave1
cloven	 pp of cleave1
clown	comic entertainer who paints his face and dresses in a ridiculous way and performs funny or foolish tricks
clownish	 adj. of or like a clown
cloy	(of sth sweet or pleasurable) become unpleasant by being tasted or experienced too often
cloying	adj. sickeningly sweet
club	group of people who meet together regularly to participate in a particular activity (esp a sport) or for relaxation
clue	~ fact or piece of evidence that helps to solve a problem or reveal the truth in an investigation
clump	n. group or cluster
clumsily	 adv.
clumsy	awkward and ungraceful in movement or shape
clung	pt, pp of cling
cluster	number of things of the same kind growing closely together
clutch	seize (sb/sth) eagerly
clutter	n. (esp unnecessary or unwanted) things lying about untidily
coach	bus for carrying passengers over long distances
coagulant	something that produces coagulation
coagulate	v. change from a liquid to a thick and semi-solid state; clot
coagulation	n.
coal	black mineral found below the ground, used for burning to supply heat and to make coal gas and coal tar
coalesce	 v. combine and form one group, substance, mass, etc
coalesced	[ coalesce: ] to unite or come together in one body or mass; merge; fuse; blend
coalition	action of uniting into one body or group
coaming	n. raised rim round a ship's hatches to keep water out
coarse	consisting of large particles; not fine
coarsen	v. become coarse
coarseness	 n.
coast	land bordering the sea
coastal	adj. of or near a coast
coastline	n. shape or outline of a coast
coat	long outer garment with sleeves, usu fastened at the front with buttons
coax	(~ sb sth) persuade sb gently or gradually
cob	strong short-legged horse for riding
cobbler	person who repairs shoes
cobra	n. poisonous snake found in India and Africa .
cock	adult male bird of the domestic fowl .
cockade	n. piece of ribbon tied in a knot and worn on a hat as a badge
cocker	 n. small spaniel with golden-brown fur .
cocksure	 adj. ~ (infml ) arrogantly or offensively confident
cocoon	silky covering made by an insect larva to protect itself while it is a chrysalis
cod	(also `codfish) large sea fish
coda	 n. final passage of a piece of music
coddle	treat with great care and tenderness
code	(system of) words, letters, symbols, etc that represent others, used for secret messages or for presenting or recording information briefly
codicil	n. later addition to a will, esp one that changes part of it
codification	 n.
codify	 v. arrange (laws, rules, etc) systematically into a code(3a)
coefficient	quantity placed before and multiplying another quantity
coelenterate	 any invertebrate of the phylum Cnidaria (formerly Coelenterata), having a saclike body with a single opening (mouth), which occurs in polyp and medusa forms. Coelenterates include the hydra, jellyfishes, sea anemones, and corals
coerce	 v. ~ sb (fml ) make sb do sth by using force or threats; compel sb to do sth
coercion	 n. coercing or being coerced
coercive	 adj. using force or threats
coeval	 adj. ~ (fml ) existing at the same time or having the same age as sb/sth else; contemporary ;
coexist	v. ~ exist together at the same time or in the same place
coexistence	n. coexisting
coffee	seeds of the coffee tree
coffer	large strong box for holding money or other valuables; chest ;
coffin	box in which a dead body is buried or cremated
cog	each of a series of teeth on the edge of a wheel, that fit between those of a similar wheel, so that each wheel can cause the other one to move
cogency	;
cogent	 adj. convincing; strong
cogitate	 v. ~ sth (fml or joc ) think deeply about sth
cogitation	 n. (act of) thinking deeply
cognate	(linguistics ) (of a word or language) having the same source or origin as another one
cognition	n. action or process of acquiring knowledge, by reasoning or by intuition or through the senses
cognitive	adj. of or relating to cognition
cognizance	knowledge; awareness
cognizant	adj. ~ of sth having knowledge of sth; aware of sth ;
cognomen	 family name
cohabit	v. ~ (fml ) (usu of an unmarried couple) live together
cohere	stick together in a mass or group
coherence	n. being coherent
coherent	 adj. connected logically or consistent; easy to understand; clear
coherently	 adv: express one's ideas coherently
cohesion	tendency to stick together; unity
cohesive	 adj. tending to stick together
cohort	each of the ten units forming a legion
cohorts	[ cohort: ] one of the ten units of between 300 and 600 men in an ancient Roman Legion
coiffure	 n. way in which (esp a woman's) hair is arranged; hairstyle ;
coil	 v. ~ round sth/up wind or twist (oneself/sth) into a continuous circular or spiral shape
coin	piece of metal used as money
coincide	(of events) occur at the same time or occupy the same period of time as sth else
coincidence	occurrence of similar events or circumstances at the same time by chance
coincident	 adj. happening at the same time by chance
coincidental	 adj. resulting from coincidence
coincidentally	 adv.
coke	 n. black substance remaining after coal gas and coal tar have been removed from coal, used as a fuel
cola	W African tree
colander	 n. metal or plastic bowl with many small holes in it, used to drain water from vegetables, etc, esp after cooking
cold	of low temperature, esp when compared to the temperature of the human body
cold-blooded	having a blood temperature which varies with the temperature of the surroundings
coldly	 adv. in an unfriendly or unenthusiastic way
coldness	 n. state of being cold
collaborate	~ (on sth) work together (with sb), esp to create or produce sth
collaboration	~ (on sth); ~ (between A and B) collaborating (collaborate 1)
collaborative	to work with another or others on a joint project
collaborator	 person who collaborates
collage	n. fixing pieces of paper, cloth, photographs, etc to a surface
collapse	fall down or in suddenly
collapsible	adj. that can be folded into a compact shape
collapsing	 [ collapse: ] to fall down or cave in suddenly
collar	band, upright or folded over, round the neck of a shirt, coat, dress, etc
collate	~ A and B/~ A with B examine and compare in order to find the differences between them
collateral	side by side; parallel ;
collation	n. action of collating
colleague	n. person with whom one works, esp in a profession or business
collect	~ sth bring or gather sth together
collected	adj. in control of oneself; calm
collection	collecting (collect1 5) sth
collective	 adj. of, by or relating to a group or society as a whole; joint; shared
collective consciousness 
	collective consciousness 
collector	n. person who collects (collect 4) things
college	institution for higher education or professional training
collegian	A college student.
collide	(of moving objects or people) strike violently against sth or each other
collier	coal-miner
collision	(instance of) one object or person striking against another; (instance of) colliding; crash
colloquial	 adj. belonging to or suitable for normal conversation but not formal speech or writing
colloquialism	n. colloquial word or phrase
colloquium	 an academic meeting or seminar usually led by a different lecturer and on a different topic at each meeting
colloquy	 n. conversation
collude	v. ~ plot or conspire to deceive or cheat others
collusion	n. ~ ~ (between sb and sb) (fml ) secret agreement or co-operation between two or more people with the aim of deceiving or cheating others
colon	n. lower part of the large intestine .
colonel	n. army officer between the ranks of lieutenant-colonel and brigadier, commanding a regiment
colonial	of, relating to or possessing a colonyor colonies
colonist	 n. person who settles in an area and colonizes it
colonization	 [ colonize: ] to send colonists to or establish a colony in (an area)
colonize	 to send colonists to or establish a colony in (an area)
colonnade	n. row of columns, usu with equal spaces between them and often supporting a roof, etc
colonnaded	 adj. having a colonnade
colony	country or area settled or conquered by people from another country and controlled by that country
color	= colour
coloration	 arrangement of colour and tones; colouring
colorless	[ color: ] verb
colossal	 adj. very large; immense; huge
colossus	statue much larger than life size
colour	visible quality that objects have, produced by rays of light of different wavelengths being reflected by them
colour-blind	 adj. unable to see the difference between certain colours, esp red and green
colt	young male horse up to the age of 4 or 5
coltish	adj. like a colt; frisky ;
column	tall pillar, usu round and made of stone, either supporting part of the roof of a building or standing alone as a monument
coma	 n. state of deep unconsciousness, usu lasting a long time and caused by severe injury or illness
comatose	in a coma; deeply unconscious ;
comb	piece of metal, plastic or bone with teeth, used for tidying and arranging the hair
combat	 n. fight or fighting between two people, armies, etc
combatant	n, adj involved in fighting in a war
combative	adj. eager or ready to fight or argue
combativeness	[ combative: ] adj. eager or ready to fight, argue, etc.; aggressive
combination	joining or mixing together of two or more things or people; state of being joined or mixed together
combine	v. ~ A and B/A with B (cause things to) join or mix together to form a whole
combustible	that can catch fire and burn easily
combustion	process of burning
come	~ (to...) (from...) move to, towards, into, etc a place where the speaker or writer is, or a place being referred to by him
comeback	 a return to a former position, status, etc.
comedian	 n. entertainerwho tells jokes, performs sketches , etc to amuse an audience
comedienne	 a female comedia
comedy	light or amusing play or film, usu with a happy ending
comeliness	 (n.) beauty; attractiveness in appearance or behavior
comely	 having a pleasing appearance:not homely or plain
comestible	 something fit to be eaten
comet	n. object that moves round the sun and looks like a bright star with a long, less bright tail
comeuppance	desert punishment
comfort	state of being free from suffering, pain or anxiety; state of physical or mental well-being
comfortable	allowing, producing or having pleasant bodily relaxation
comfortably	in a comfortable way
comic	causing people to laugh; funny
comical	adj. amusing
coming	arrival
comity	 friendly social atmosphere:social harmony
comma	n. punctuation mark to indicate a light pause or break between parts of a sentence
command	tell (sb) that he must do sth; order
commandeer	 v. take possession or control of forcibly or for official (esp military) purposes
commander	person who commands
commandment	n. (fml ) command; order
commemorate	v. keep (a great person, event, etc) in people's memories
commemorative	adj. helping to commemorate
commence	 v. begin (sth); start
commencement	beginning
commend	~ sb (on/for sth); ~ sb/sth (to sb) speak favourably to or of sb/sth; praise sb/sth ;
commendable	adj. deserving praise
commensurate	 adj~(fml ) in the right proportion (to sth); appropriate
comment	~ written or spoken remark giving an opinion on, explaining or criticizing (an event, a person, a situation, etc)
commentary	~ spoken description of an event asit happens
commentator	n. ~ person who commentates
commerce	 n. trade (esp between countries); buying and selling of goods
commercial	of or for commerce
commercially	 adv: Commercially, the play was a failure, though the critics loved it. ,
commingle	mingle together
commiserate	v. ~ (on/over sth) (fml ) feel, or say that one feels, sympathy
commiseration	n. ~ (fml or joc ) (expression of) sympathy for sb
commissariat	 The department of an army charged with the provision of its food and water and daily needs.
commission	~ action, task or piece of work given to sb to do
commissioner	member of a commission, esp one with particular duties
commit	do (sth illegal, wrong or foolish)
commitment	~ committing or being committed (commit
committal	n. action of committing (commit 2), esp to prison
committed	adj. devoted (to a cause, one's job, etc)
committee	n. group of people appointed to deal with a particular matter
commodious	 adj. having a lot of space available for use; roomy
commodity	thing bought in a shop and put to use, esp in the home
common	usual or familiar; happening or found often and in many places
commonly	usually; very often
commonplace	adj. ordinary; not interesting
commonsense	sound and prudent but often unsophisticated judgment
commonwealth	independent State or community
commotion	n. noisy confusion or excitement
communal	for the use of all; shared
commune	v. ~ ~ (together) talk to sb intimately; feel close to sb/sth
communicable	 adj. that can be communicated or transmitted
communicate	~ sth make sth known; convey sth
communication	act of communicating(1b
communion	Communion(in the Christian Church) celebration of the Lord's Supper
communism	social and economic system in which there is no private ownership and the means of production belong to all members of society
communist	supporter of communism
community	the community the people living in one place, district or country, considered as a whole
commutable	 adj. ~ that can be made, paid, etc in a different form
commute	travel regularly by bus, train or car between one's place of work and one's home (usu at a distance)
commuter	 n. person who commutes
compact	closely packed together
compaction	 [ compact: ] closely packed together; dense
companion	person or animal that goes with, or spends much time with, another
company	being together with another or others
comparability	[ comparable: ] worthy of comparison
comparable	 adj. ~ able or suitable to be compared
comparative	involving comparison or comparing
comparatively	adv. as compared to sth or sb else
compare	v. ~ A and B; ~ A with/to B examine people or things to see how they are alike and how they are different
comparison	comparing
compartment	n. any of the sections into which a larger area or enclosed space, esp a railway carriage, is divided
compartmentalize to put or divide into (compartments, categories, etc.), esp. to an excessive degree
	compartmentalize to put or divide into (compartments, categories, etc.), esp. to an excessive degree
compass	(also magnetic compass) device for finding direction, with a needle that points to magnetic north
compassion	 n. ~ pity for the sufferings of others, making one want to help them
compassionate	adj. showing or feeling compassion ; . compassionately
compatibility	n. ~ ~ (between A and B) state of being compatible
compatible	 adj. ~ (of people, ideas, arguments, principles, etc) suited; that can exist together
compatriot	 n. person who was born in, or is a citizen of, the same country as another; fellow-countryman ;
compel	(fml ) make (sb) do sth; force
compellation	 honor; title
compelling	 adj. extremely interesting and exciting, so that one has to pay attention
compendious	adj. giving a lot of information briefly
compendium	brief but full account; summary
compensate	 v. ~ for sth give (sb) sth good to balance or lessen the bad effect of damage, loss, injury, etc; recompense
compensating	 [ compensate: ] to make amends to (someone), esp. for loss or injury
compensation	 n. ~ compensating
compensatory	 adj. compensating
compere	n. person who introduces the performers in a variety programme or game show, esp on radio or television
compete	v. ~ (in sth) (for sth) try to win sth by defeating others who are trying to do the same
competence	~ ~ (in doing sth/to do sth) being competent; ability
competent	~ ~ (to do sth) (of people) having the necessary ability, authority, skill, knowledge, etc
competition	event in which people compete; contest
competitive	of or involving competition
competitiveness	[ competitive: ] involving or determined by rivalry
competitor	 n. person who competes
compilation	n. compiling
compile	~ sth (for/from sth) collect (information) and arrange it in a book, list, report, etc
complacence	Satisfaction with one's acts or surroundings.
complacency	n. ~ (usu derog ) calm feeling of satisfactionwith oneself, one's work, etc
complacent	 adj. ~ (usu derog ) calmly satisfied with oneself, one's work, etc
complain	~ (about/at sth) (often derog ) say that one is dissatisfied, unhappy, etc
complainingly	adv: `Why me?' he asked complainingly. ?
complaint	complaining
complaisance	 n. willingness to do what pleases others
complaisant	adj. ready to please; obliging
complement	~ thing that goes well or suitably with sth else, or makes it complete
complementary	adj. ~ combining well to form a balanced whole
complete	having all its parts; whole
completely	 adv. wholly; totally
completeness	 n.
completion	action of completing
complex	adj. made up of (usu several) closely connected parts
complexion	natural colour and appearance of the skin of the face
complexity	 n. state of being complex
compliance	action in accordance with a request or command; obedience
compliant	adj. ~ (usu derog ) (too) willing to comply (with other people, with rules, etc)
complicate	 v. make more difficult to do, understand or deal with
complicated	adj. (often derog ) made up of many interconnected parts
complication	state of being complex, intricate or difficult; involved condition
complicity	 n. ~ action of taking part with another person (in a crime or some other wrongdoing); shared responsibility
compliment	~ expression of praise, admiration, approval, etc
complimentary	expressing admiration, praise, etc
comply	 v. ~ (with sth) do as one is requested, commanded, etc; obey
component	n. any of the parts of which sth is made
comport	v. ~ oneself with sth conduct oneself in the specified way; behave
comportment	n. behaviour
compose	write (music, opera, etc)
composed	~ of sth made up or formed from sth
composer	 n. person who composes
composite	n, adj made up of different parts or materials
composition	n. thing composed, eg a piece of music, a poem or a book
compost	n. mixture of decayed organic matter, manure, etc added to soil to improve the growth of plants
composure	n. state of being calm in mind or behaviour
compound	 n. thing made up of two or more separate things combined together
comprehend	 v. understand fully
comprehended	 [ comprehend: ] to perceive or understand
comprehensibility n.
	comprehensibility n.
comprehensible	 adj. ~ that can be understood fully
comprehension	n. understanding
comprehensive	adj. that includes everything
comprehensively	adv: Our football team was comprehensively defeated
compress	 v. ~ sth press sth together; force sth into a small(er) space
compressible	 Capable of being pressed into smaller compass.
compression	n. compressing or being compressed
compressor	 n. machine that compresses air or other gases
comprise	 v. have as parts or members; be made up of
compromise	 n. giving up of certain demands by each side in a dispute, so that an agreement may be reached which satisfies both to some extent
compulsion	 n. ~ compelling or being compelled
compulsive	 adj. extremely interesting; fascinating
compulsory	 adj. that must be done; required by the rules, etc; obligatory
compunction	n. ~ (fml ) (usu in negative sentences ) feeling of guilt or regret for one's action
computation	n. (fml ) (act of) computing; calculation
computational	adj. using computers
compute	v. ~ sth calculate sth with a computer
computer	 n. electronic device for storing and analysing information fed into it, making calculations, or controlling machinery automatically
comrade	n. fellow member of a trade-union, or of a socialist or communist political party, etc
comradeship	n.
con	n. instance of cheating sb; confidence trick
concatenate	to link together in a series or chain
concatenation	n. ~ (fml ) series of things or events linked together
concave	adj. curved inwards like the inner surface of a sphere or ball .
conceal	~ sth/sb (from sb/sth) keep sth/sb from being seen or known about; hide sth/sb
concealed	[ conceal: ] to keep from discovery; hide
concealment	n. acton of concealing or state of being concealed
concede	~ sth admit that sth is true, valid, proper, etc
conceit	excessive pride in oneself or in one's powers, abilities, etc
conceited	adj. full of conceit
conceivable	adj. that can be conceived or believed; imaginable
conceive	become pregnant
conceived	to have an idea (of); imagine; think
concentrate	~ (sth) (on sth/doing sth) focus (one's attention, effort, etc) exclusively and intensely on sth, not thinking about other less important things
concentrated	intense
concentration	~ (power of) concentrating (on sth)
concentric	 adj. ~ (of circles) having the same centre
concept	n. ~ idea underlying sth; general notion
conception	conceiving or being conceived
conceptual	 adj. of or based on concepts
concern	be the business of (sb); be important to; affect ;
concerned	adj. ~ worried; troubled
concerning	 prep about
concert	musical entertainment given in public by one or more performers
concerted	adj. arranged or done in co-operation
concerto	 n. musical composition for one or more solo instruments and an orchestra
concession	~ conceding
concessionary	adj. involving a concession
conch	n. shellfish with a large spiral shell
conchology	 n. study of shells and shellfish
conciliate	make less angry or more friendly (esp by being pleasant or making some concessions)
conciliation	 n. conciliating or being conciliated
conciliatory	 adj. intended or likely to conciliate
concise	adj. giving a lot of information in few words; brief
conciseness	Expressing much in few words;
concision	expressing much in few words
conclave	 n. private meeting
conclude	~ (with sth) (usu fml ) come or bring (sth) to an end
conclusion	end
conclusive	 adj. convincing; ending doubt
concoct	make (sth) by mixing ingredients (esp ones that do not usu go together)
concoction	 n. concocting
concomitant	adj. ~ (fml ) accompanying; happening together
concord	harmony between people; lack of quarrelling and unfriendliness
concordance	n. alphabeticalindex of the words used by an author or in a book
concordant	 adj. ~ (fml ) in agreement; appropriate
concordat	n. agreement, esp between a State and the Church on church affairs
concourse	open area forming part of a building or large complex, where people may walk about
concrete	existing in material form; that can be touched, felt, etc
concretion	 n. mass formed when sth soft or liquid becomes hard or solid
concubine	n. woman who lives with a man but is of lower status than a wife
concur	~ (with sb/sth) (in sth) agree; express agreement
concurrence	agreement
concurrent	 adj. ~ existing, happening or done at the same time
concussion	 n. injury to the brain caused by a blow, violent shaking, etc, resulting in temporary unconsciousness
condemn	v. ~ sb/sth say that one disapproves of sb/sth
condemnation	 n. condemning or being condemned
condemned	[ condemn: ] to express strong disapproval of; censure
condensation	condensing or being condensed
condense	~ (into/to sth) (cause sth to) become thicker or more concentrated
condenser	device for cooling vapour and condensing it to liquid
condescend	do sth that one regards as undignified or below one's level of importance
condescending	adj.
condescension	n. condescending
condign	adj. (of punishment, etc) severe and well deserved
condiment	n. seasoning used to give flavour and relish to food
condiments	 [ condiment: ] any spice or sauce such as salt, pepper, mustard, etc.
condition	particular state of existence
conditional	adj. ~ (on/upon sth) depending on sth
condole	,
condolence	 n. sympathy
condone	v. treat or regard as if it were not serious or wrong; overlook; forgive
condor	 n. type of large vulture found mainly in S America
conduce	v. ~ to/towards sth help to bring sth about
conducive	adj. ~ to sth allowing or helping sth to happen
conduct	person's behaviour
conduction	 n. conductingof electric current along wires or of heat by contact
conductivity	 n. property or power of conducting heat, electricity, etc
conductor	person who directs the performance of an orchestra, a choir, etc
conduit	n. large pipe through which liquids flow
cone	solid body that narrows to a point from a circular flat base .
confection	 n. thing made with sweet ingredients
confectionery	n. sweets, chocolates, cakes, etc
confederacy	alliance or league, esp of states
confederate	adj. joined together by an agreement or a treaty
confer	~ (with sb) (on/about sth) have discussions (esp in order to exchange opinions or get advice)
conferee	 A person with whom another confers.
conference	 n. discussion or exchange of views
conferment	 n. giving or granting (of degrees, honours, etc)
confess	~ (to sth/doing sth); ~ (sth) (to sb) say or admit, often formally (that one has done wrong, committed a crime, etc)
confession	statement of one's guilt; confessing
confessor	n. priest who hears confessions
confidant	n. trusted person to whom one speaks about one's private affairs or secrets
confide	~ sth to sb tell (a secret) to sb
confidence	 n. ~ (in sb/sth) firm trust (in sb, in sb's ability, or in what is said, reported, etc)
confident	adj. ~ feeling or showing trust in oneself or one's ability
confidential	to be kept secret; not to be made known to others
confidentiality	n.
confidentially	 adv: He told me confidentially that he's thinking of resigning next year
configuration	n. arrangement of the parts of sth; shape or outline
confine	~ sb/sth keep (a person or an animal) in a restricted space
confined	 adj. limited; restricted
confinement	being confined; imprisonment
confirm	provide evidence for the truth or correctness of (a report, an opinion, etc); establish the truth of
confirmation	 n. confirming or being confirmed
confirmed	adj. settled in a particular habit or state
confiscate	 v. take possession of by authority, without payment or compensation
conflagration	n. great and destructive fire
conflate	 v. combine into one
conflict	struggle; fight
confluence	place where two rivers flow together and become one
confluent	adj. flowing or coming together; uniting ;
conform	~ keep to or comply with (generally accepted rules, standards, etc)
conformable	Harmonious.
conformance	The act or state or conforming.
conformation	 n. way in which sth is formed; structure ;
conformist	 n. person who conforms to accepted behaviour, the established religion, etc
conformity	~ (fml ) (behaviour, etc) conforming to established rules, customs, etc ,
confound	puzzle and surprise (sb); perplex
confront	~ sb with sb/sth make sb face or consider sb/sth unpleasant, difficult, etc
confrontation	n. angry opposition
confrontational	[ confrontation: ] the act or an instance of confronting
confuse	make unable to think clearly; puzzle; bewilder
confused	unable to think clearly; bewildered
confusing	adj. difficult to understand; puzzling
confusion	bewilderment or embarrassment
confute	v. prove (a person or an argument) to be wrong
congeal	v. (cause to) become thick or solid, esp by cooling
congenial	pleasing because of similarities in temperament, interests,etc
congeniality	 n.
congenital	present from or before birth
congest	become or cause to become obstructed
congestion	 n. state of being congested
conglomerate	materials gathered together into a rounded mass
conglomeration	assortment of different things gathered together or found in the same place
congratulate	~ sb tell sb that one is pleased about his good fortune or achievements
congratulation	congratulating or being congratulated
congratulatory	 adj. intended to congratulate
congregate	 v. come together in a crowd
congregation	group of people gathered together for religious worship
congress	formal meeting or series of meetings for discussion between representatives
congressional	of a congress or Congress
congruence	 correspondence of parts; harmonious relationship
congruent	having the same size and shape
congruity	n.
congruous	adj. ~ (fml ) = congruent2
conifer	n. type of tree that bears cones (cone 3)
coniferous	 adj. bearing cones
conjecture	 v. ~ (fml ) form (and express) an opinion not based on firm evidence; guess
conjoin	v. (cause people or things to) join together; unite ;
conjugal	 adj. of marriage or the relationship between a husband and a wife
conjugate	give the different forms of (a verb), as they vary according to number, tense, etc
conjugation	conjugating
conjunction	and but or
conjure	do clever tricks which seem magical, esp with quick movements of the hands
conjurer	 n. person who performs conjuring tricks
conjuring	n. performing of clever tricks which seem magical, esp involving quick movements of the hands
connect	v. ~ (up) (to/with sth) come or bring together or into contact; join
connection	 the act or state of connecting; union
connivance	 n. ~ conniving (at a wrong action)
connive	v. ~ at sth disregard or seem to allow (a wrong action)
conniving	adj. acting slyly and unpleasantly so as to harm others
connoisseur	n. person with good judgement on matters in which appreciation of fineness or beauty is needed, esp the fine arts
connotation	n. idea which a word makes one think of in addition to the main meaning
connotative	having the power of implying or suggesting something in addition to what is explicit
connote	v. suggest (sth) in addition to the main meaning
connubial	adj. of marriage; of husband and wife
conquer	take possession of (sth) by force
conqueror	n. person who conquers
conquest	conquering (eg of a country and its people); defeat
consanguineous	 adj. Descended from the same parent or ancestor.
consanguinity	n. relationship by being descended from the same family
conscience	person's awareness of right and wrong with regard to his own thoughts and actions
conscientious	careful to do what one ought to do, and do it as well as one can
conscious	knowing what is going on around one because one is able to use bodily senses and mental powers; awake
consciously	adv.
consciousness	state of being conscious(1)
conscript	v. ~ sb force sb by law to serve in the armed forces
conscription	 n. conscripting of people into the armed forces
consecrate	bring into religious use or (sb) into a religious office by a special ceremony
consecutive	adj. coming one after the other without interruption; following continuously
consensus	n. ~ agreement in opinion; collective opinion
consent	v. ~ give agreement or permission
consequence	thing that is a result or an effect of sth else
consequent	 adj. ~ (fml ) following sth as a result or an effect
consequential	following as a result or an effect (esp indirect)
consequently	 adv. as a result; therefore
conservation	prevention of loss, waste, damage, destruction, etc
conservatism	tendency to resist great or sudden change
conservative	opposed to great or sudden change
conservatory	room with glass walls and roof used to protect plants from cold, built against an outside wall of a house, and with a door into the house .
conserve	 v. prevent from being changed, lost or destroyed
conserved	[ conserve: ] to keep or protect from harm, decay, loss, etc.
conserving	 [ conserve: ] to keep or protect from harm, decay, loss, etc.
consider	 v. ~ sb/sth think about sb/sth, esp in order to make a decision; contemplate sb/sth
considerable	 adj. great in amount or size
considerably	 adv. much; a great deal
considerate	adj. ~ ~ (of sb) (to do sth) careful not to hurt or inconvenience others; thoughtful
consideration	action of considering or thinking about sth
considering	prep, conj in view of (the fact that); taking into consideration ;
consign	v. ~ sb/sth to sb/sth hand over sb/sth to sb/sth; give sb/sth up to sb/sth
consignee	n. person to whom sth is consigned
consignment	consigning
consist	v. (phr v) consist of sth be composed or made up of sth
consistency	(approv ) quality of being consistent(1)
consistent	(of a person, his behaviour, his views, etc) always keeping to the same pattern or style; unchanging
consistently	 adv.
consolation	consoling or being consoled
consolatory	adj. tending or intended to console; comforting
console	v. ~ sb give comfort or sympathy to (sb who is unhappy, disappointed, etc)
consolidate	become more solid, secure, or strong
consolidation	n. consolidating or being consolidated
consonance	harmony
consonant	n. speech sound produced by completely or partially obstructing the air being breathed out through the mouth
consort	n. husband or wife, esp of a ruler
consortium	 n. temporary association of a number of countries, companies, banks, etc for a common purpose
conspectus	 n. (fml ) general view or survey of a subject, etc ,
conspicuous	~ easily seen; noticeable; remarkable
conspiracy	 n. ~ act of conspiring, esp joint planning of a crime
conspirator	n. person who conspires
conspire	~ (against sb); ~ (together) (against sb) make secret plans (with others), esp to do wrong
constable	n. = police constable (police)
constancy	quality of being firm and unchanging
constant	going on all the time; happening again and again
constantly	 adv. continuously; frequently
constants	[ constant: ] fixed and invariable; unchanging
constellation	named group of stars
consternation	n. surprise and anxiety; great dismay
constituency	 n. (body of voters living in a) district having its own elected representative in parliament
constituent	adj. forming or helping to make a whole
constitute	(fml ) make up or form (a whole); be the components of
constitution	laws and principles according to which a state is governed
constitutional	of a constitution
constrain	v. make (sb) do sth by strong (moral) persuasion or by force
constrained	adj. forced; uneasy; unnatural
constraint	con-straining or being constrained
constrict	v. make tight, smaller or narrower
constricted	[ constrict: ] to make smaller or narrower, esp. by contracting at one place
constringe	 to cause to contract; constrict.
construct	build (sth); put or fit together; form
constructed	[ construct: ] to put together substances or parts, esp. systematically, in order to make or build (a building, bridge, etc.); assemble
construction	action or manner of constructing; being constructed
constructive	 adj. having a useful purpose, helpful
constructor	n. person who constructs things
construe	~ sth (fml ) explain the meaning of (words, sentences, actions, etc); interpret sth
consul	official appointed by a state to live in a foreign city in order to help people from his own country who are travelling or living there, and protect their interests
consular	 adj. of a consul
consulate	offices of a consul
consulship	position of a consul
consult	~ sb/sth go to (a person, book, etc) for information, advice, etc
consultation	consulting or being consulted
consume	use (sth) up
consumer	 n. person who buys goods or uses services
consumerism	n. protection of consumers' interests
consummate	 adj. highly skilled; perfect
consummation	 n. action or point of completing, making perfect, or fulfilling
consumption	using up of food, energy, resources, etc
consumptive	adj. suffering or tending to suffer from consumption(2)
contact	~ state of touching (used esp with the vs shown)
contagion	spreadingof disease by being close to or touching other people
contagious	(of a disease) spreading by contact
contagiousness	 [ contagious: ] (of a disease) capable of being passed on by direct contact with a diseased individual or by handling clothing, etc., contaminated with the causative agent
contain	have or hold (sth) within itself
contained	[ contain: ] to hold or be capable of holding or including within a fixed limit or area
container	box, bottle, etc in which sth is kept, transported, etc
containment	n. keeping sth within limits, so that it cannot spread harmfully
contaminant	n. substance that contaminates things
contaminate	v. ~ sth/sb make sth/sb impure by adding dangerous or disease-carrying substances
contaminated	 [ contaminate: ] to make impure, esp. by touching or mixing; pollute
contamination	n. contaminating or being contaminated
contemplate	look at or consider (sth) thoughtfully
contemplation	action of looking at sth/sb thoughtfully
contemporaneous	adj. ~ (fml ) existing or happening at the same time
contemporary	~ of the time or period being referred to; belonging to the same time
contempt	~ (for sb/sth) feeling that sb/sth is completely worthless and cannot be respected
contemptible	 adj. deserving contempt; despicable
contemptuous	 adj. ~ feeling or showing contempt
contend	~ with/against sb/sth; ~ for sth struggle in order to overcome a rival, competitor or difficulty
contender	n. person who tries to win sth in competition with others
content	adj. ~ (with sth); ~ to do sth satisfied with what one has; not wanting more; happy
contented	adj. accepting one's situation or life with equanimity and satisfaction
contention	~ contending (contend 1); competition
contentious	exhibiting an often perverse and wearisome tendency to quarrels and disputes
contentiously	[ contentious: ] tending to argue or quarrel
contentiousness	[ contentious: ] tending to argue or quarrel
contentment	n. state of being content
contest	dispute
contestant	 a person who takes part in a contest; competito
context	writings preceding and following passage quoted
contiguity	 n. being contiguous
contiguous	 adj. ~ (fml ) touching; neighbouring; near
continence	control of one's feelings, esp in sexual matters
continent	each of the main land masses of the Earth
continental	belonging to or typical of a continent
contingency	n. event that may or may not occur; event that happens by chance
contingent	~ on/upon sth dependent on sth that may or may not happen
continual	adj. going on all the time without stopping, or repeatedly
continually	adv. without stopping; repeatedly
continuance	n. continuing existence; remaining; staying
continuation	carrying sth on beyond a certain point without stopping; prolongation
continue	go or move further
continuity	state of being continuous
continuous	 adj. going on without stopping or being interrupted
continuum	n. graded sequence of things of a similar kind, so that the ones next to each other are almost identical, but the ones at either end are quite distinct; cline
contort	v. ~ (with sth) (cause sth to) twist out of its natural shape
contorted	twisted out of shape
contortion	 contortingor being contorted (esp of the face or body)
contortions	[ contortion: ] the act or process of contorting or the state of being contorted
contour	outward curve of sth/sb thought of as defining its shape
contoured	[ contour: ] the outline of a mass of land, figure, or body; a defining line
contraband	 n. goods brought into or taken out of a country illegally
contraception	n. preventing of conception
contraceptive	n. device or drug for preventing conception ; . adj preventing conception
contract	 n. ~ (for sth/to do sth) legally binding agreement, usu in writing
contraction	contracting or being contracted
contradict	say sth that conflicts with by (sb), suggesting that the person is mistaken or not telling the truth
contradiction	contradicting
contradictory	adj. contradicting
contraposition	 A placing opposite.
contrary	 adj. opposite in nature, tendency or direction
contrast	 v. ~ A and/with B compare so that differences are made clear
contravene	act or be contrary to (a law, etc); break
contravention	n. contravening (a law, etc)
contretemps	n. (French fml or joc , ) unfortunate event; mishap; set-back ;
contribute	~ (to/towards sth) give one's share of (money, help, advice, etc) to help a joint cause
contributing	 [ contribute: ] to give (support, money, etc.) for a common purpose or fund
contribution	 n. ~ action of contributing
contributor	n. person who contributes
contrite	 adj. filled with or showing deep regret for having done wrong; repentant
contrition	 n. deep regret for having doing wrong; repentance ;
contrivance	~ device or tool, esp one made by an individual for a particular purpose
contrive	plan (sth) cleverly or deceitfully; invent; design
contrived	planned in advance rather than being spontaneous or genuine
control	~ power or authority to direct, order or limit
controllable	 adj. that can be controlled
controlled	 [ control: ] to command, direct, or rule
controller	 n. person who controls or directs sth, esp a department or division of a large organization
controversial	adj. causing or likely to cause controversy
controversialist n. person who is good at or fond of controversy
	controversialist n. person who is good at or fond of controversy
controversy	n. ~ public discussion or argument, often rather angry, about sth which many people disagree with
controvert	 v. deny the truth of (sth); argue about
contumacious	 adj. obstinate and disobedient
contumacy	n. obstinate resistance or disobedience
contumelious	 arrogantly insolent
contumely	n. insulting language or treatment
contuse	v. injure (a part of the body) without breaking the skin; bruise ;
contusion	n. bruise
conundrum	question, usu with a pun in its answer, that is asked for fun; riddle ;
convalesce	 v. regain one's health and strength after an illness
convalescence	n. gradual recovery of health and strength . convalescent n, adj (person who is) recovering from illness
convalescent	 [ convalescence: ] gradual return to health after illness, injury, or an operation, esp. through rest
convection	 n. transmission of heat from one part of a liquid or gas to another by the movement of heated substances
convene	summon to come together; arrange (a meeting, etc)
convenience	quality of being convenient or suitable; freedom from trouble or difficulty
convenient	 adj. ~ fitting in well with people's needs or plans; giving no trouble or difficulty; suitable
convention	conference of members of a profession, political party, etc
conventional	(often derog ) based on convention(2a)
conventionality	n. conventional quality or character
conventionalized [ conventionalize: ] to make conventionalize
	conventionalized [ conventionalize: ] to make conventionalize
conventionally	 adv: conventionally dressed, designed, etc
converge	~ ~ (at sth) (of lines, moving objects, etc) (come towards each other and) meet at a point
convergent	 tending to move toward one point or to approach each other:CONVERGING
conversance	[ conversant: ] experienced (in), familiar (with), or acquainted (with)
conversant	 adj. ~ with sth having knowledge of sth; familiar with sth
conversation	 n. ~ (about sth) informal talk
conversational	 adj. of talking
converse	 v. ~ (about sth); ~ (together) (fml ) talk
conversely	 [ converse: ] to engage in conversation
conversion	converting or being converted
convert	~ (sth) (from sth) (into/to sth) change (sth) from one form or use to another
convertibility	 n. convertible n car with a roof that can be folded down or removed
convertible	adj. ~ that can be converted
convex	 adj. with a curved surface like the outside of a ball
convey	~ sb/sth (from...) (to...) (fml ) take sb/sth; carry sb/sth; transmit sb/sth ;
conveyance	conveying
convict	v. ~ sb (of a jury or judge) declare in a lawcourt that sb is guilty (of a crime)
conviction	~ the convicting of a person for a crime
convince	~ sb make sb feel certain; cause sb to realize
convinced	adj. firm in one's belief
convincing	 adj. that convinces
convivial	cheerful and sociable; fond of being with others
conviviality	cheerfulness; sociability ;
convocation	formal assembly, esp the legislative body of the Church of England or of the graduates of some universities
convoke	v. call together or summon (a meeting, etc)
convolute	to form into a twisted, coiled, or rolled shape
convoluted	coiled; twisted
convolution	n. coil; twist
convolve	 To move with a circling or winding motion.
convoy	group of vehicles or ships travelling together
convulse	 v. cause to make sudden violent uncontrollable movements
convulsion	sudden violent uncontrollable body movement, caused by contraction of muscles
convulsive	having, producing or consisting of convulsions
cook	~ sth (for sb) prepare (food) by heating, eg boiling, baking, roasting, frying
cooker	kitchen appliance for cooking, consisting of an oven with a hob on top and often also a grill
cool	fairly cold; not hot or warm
coolness	 n. quality of being cool1
coop	 n. cage for poultry
cooperate	to work or act together
cooperation	joint operation or action
cooperative	willing to cooperate; helpful
coordinate	 vt. to organize or integrate (diverse elements) in a harmonious operation
coordination	 balanced and effective interaction of movement, actions, etc.
cope	 v. ~ manage successfully; be able to deal with sth difficult
copious	plentiful; abundant
copiously	adv.
copper	chemical element, a common reddish-brown metal
copulate	 v. ~ (fml ) (esp of animals) have sexual intercourse
copulation	 n. act of copulating
copy	thing made to look like another, esp a reproduction of a letter, picture, etc
copyright	n. ~ exclusive legal right, held for a certain number of years, to print, publish, sell, broadcast, perform, film or record an original work or any part of it
coquetry	 n. flirting
coquette	 n. girl or woman who flirts
coral	red, pink or white hard substance formed on the sea bed from the skeletons of tiny animals known as polyps
cord	long thin flexible material made of twisted strands, thicker than string and thinner than rope
cordial	sincere and friendly
cordially	adv.
cordon	line or ring of policemen, soldiers, etc, esp one which guards sth or prevents people entering or leaving an area
core	centre of such fruits as the apple and pear, containing the seeds
cormorant	n. large, long-necked, dark-coloured bird which lives near sea coasts and eats fish .
corn	(esp Brit) (seed of) any of various grain plants, chiefly wheat, oats, rye and maize; such plants while growing
corner	place where two lines, sides, edges or surfaces meet; angle enclosed by two walls, sides, etc that meet
cornet	brass instrument, like a trumpet but smaller, typically played in brass bands
cornice	ornamental moulding, eg in plaster, round the walls of a room, just below the ceiling .
cornucopia	ornamental animal's horn shown in art as overflowing with flowers, fruit and corn, symbolizing abundance ,
corny	adj. (infml derog , ) too often heard or repeated; hackneyed
corollary	n. ~ (fml ) natural consequence or result; thing that logically must be so, once sth else has been established
corona	 n. (astronomy) ring of light seen round the sun or moon, eg during an eclipse
coronation	 n. ceremony of crowning a king, a queen or some other sovereign ruler
coroner	n. official who investigates any violent or suspicious death
coronet	small crown worn by a peer or peeress
corporal	 adj. of the human body
corporate	of or shared by all the members of a group; collective
corporation	group of people elected to govern a town; council
corporeal	of or for the body; bodily
corps	n. military force made up of two or more divisions
corpse	 n. dead body
corpulence	 the property of excessive fatness
corpulent	adj. (of a person or his body) fat
corpus	 n. collection of written (or sometimes spoken) texts
corpuscle	n. any of the red or white cells in the blood
corral	enclosure for horses, cattle, etc on a ranch or farm
correct	true; right; accurate
correction	correcting
correctly	adv. rightly,accuratly
correlate	v. ~ ~ A and/with B have a mutual relation or connection, esp of affecting or depending on each other; (try to) show such a relation or connection between sth and sth else
correlation	n. ~ ~ (between A and B) mutual relationship
correlative	adj. having or showing a relation to sth else
correspond	~ be in agreement; not contradict sth or each other
correspondence	~ agreement; similarity
correspondent	person who contributes news or comments regularly to a newspaper, radio station, etc, esp from abroad
corresponding	adj. that corresponds
correspondingly	to conform, be in agreement, or be consistent or compatible (with); tally (with)
corridor	long narrow passage, from which doors open into rooms or compartments
corrigendum	n. corrected error, esp one of a list printed at the beginning of a book
corrigible	 Capable of reformation.
corroborate	v. confirm or give support to
corroboration	n. confirmation or support by further evidence, esp from a different source; additional evidence
corroborative	adj. tending to corroborate
corrode	v. ~ (away) be destroyed or destroy (sth) slowly, esp by chemical action
corrosion	n. corroding or being corroded; corroded area or part
corrosive	n, adj that corrodes
corrugate	v. be shaped or shape into folds, wrinkles or furrows
corrugated	 adj. folded, wrinkled or furrowed
corrugation	n. fold; wrinkle ;
corrupt	immoral, esp sexually
corruptible	adj. that can be corrupted
corruption	corrupting or being corrupted
corsair	n. pirate or pirate ship attacking ships of European countries, esp off the coast of N Africa
corset	 n. close-fitting undergarment worn to shape the body, or support it in case of injury
cortege	n. solemn procession, esp for a funeral
cortex	 n. (medical) outer layer of the brain or other organ
coruscate	v. flash; sparkle
cosmetic	 n. substance for putting on the body, esp the face, to make it beautiful
cosmic	 adj. of the whole universe or cosmos
cosmogony	n. theory of the origin and development of the universe
cosmography	The science that describes the universe, including astronomy, geography, and geology.
cosmology	scientific study of the universe and its origin and development
cosmopolitan	containing people from all over the world
cosmopolitanism	A cosmopolitan character.
cosmos	 the cosmos n the universe, ie all space, seen as a well-ordered system
cosset	 v. protect (sb/sth) too carefully; pamper
cosseted	 [ cosset: ] to pamper; coddle; pet
cost	(not usu in the continuous tenses ) be obtainable at the price of; require the payment of
costless	 [ cost: ] the price paid or required for acquiring, producing, or maintaining something, usually measured in money, time, or energy; expense or expenditure; outlay
costly	 adj. costing much; expensive
costume	garment or style of dress, esp of a particular period or group or for a particular activity
cosy	(warm and) comfortable
coterie	n. small group of people with shared activities, interests, tastes, etc, esp one that tends to be exclusive
coterminous	adj. ~ (fml ) having a shared boundary
cottage	n. small simple house, esp in the country
cotton	soft white fibrous substance round the seeds of a tropical plant, used for making thread, cloth, etc
couch	n. long bedlike seat for sitting or lying on; sofa
cougar	 n. = puma
cough	send out air from the lungs violently and noisily, esp to clear one's throat or when one has a cold, etc
could	(indicating permission )
council	group of people elected to manage affairs in a city, county, etc
counsel	advice; suggestions
counsellor	adviser
counselor	[ counsellor: ] a person who gives counsel; adviser
count	~ (to sth) say or name numbers in order
counted	[ count: ] to add up or check (each unit in a collection) in order to ascertain the sum; enumerate
countenance	(expression on sb's) face
counter	long narrow flat surface over which goods are sold or served or business done in a shop, bank, etc
counteract	 v. act against and reduce the force or effect of
counteraction	n. counteracting
counterbalance	 n. ~ weight or force that balances another
counterfeit	n, adj made or done so that it is very similar to another thing, in order to deceive; fake
countermand	v. cancel (a command or an order already given), esp by giving a new and opposite one ,
counterpart	n. person or thing that corresponds to or has the same function as sb or sth else
counterpoint	melody added as an accompaniment to another
counterpoise	= counterbalance
counterproductive adj. tending to hinder or act against the achievement of an ai
	counterproductive adj. tending to hinder or act against the achievement of an ai
countervail	counterbalance
country	area of land that forms a politically independent unit; nation; state
countryman	person living in or born in the same country(1a) as sb else
countryside	n. fields, wooded areas, etc outside towns and cities
county	administrative division of Britain, the largest unit of local government
coup	 n. surprising and successful action
couple	two people or things that are seen together or associated, esp a man and woman together
couplet	n. two successive lines of verse of equal length
courage	ability to control fear when facing danger, pain, etc; bravery
courageous	 adj. brave; fearless
courier	person employed to guide and assist a group of tourists
course	forward movement in time
courser	A fleet and spirited horse.
court	place where trials or other law cases are held
courteous	adj. having or showing good manners; polite ;
courtesy	courteous behaviour; good manners
courtroom	a room in which the sittings of a law court are hel
courtyard	n. = court 4
cousin	child of one's uncle or aunt
coven	n. meeting or group of witches
covenant	formal agreement that is legally binding
cover	~ sth (up/over) (with sth) place sth over or in front of sth; hide or protect sth in this way
covering	 n. thing that covers
covert	 adj. concealed; not open; secret
covet	v. want very much to possess (esp sth that belongs to sb else)
covetous	 adj. ~ (derog ) having or showing a strong desire to possess (esp sth that belongs to sb else)
covey	n. small flock of partridges
cow	fully-grown female of any animal of the ox family, esp the domestic kind kept by farmers to produce milk and beef
coward	 n. person who lacks courage; person who runs away from danger
cowardice	n. feelings or behaviour of a coward; fearfulness
cowardly	 adj. lacking courage; of or like a coward
cower	v. crouch down or move backwards in fear or distress
cowhand	n. person who looks after cows
coxswain	man in charge of a ship's rowing-boat and its crew
coy	= company
cozen	cheat; hoodwink; swindle
crab	ten-legged shellfish .
crabbed	small and difficult to read
crack	~ line along which sth has broken, but not into separate parts
cradle	small bed for a baby, usu shaped like a box with curved parts underneath so that it can move from side to side
craft	occupation, esp one that needs skill in the use of the hands; such a skill or technique
craftsman	skilled workman, esp one who makes things by hand
crafty	 adj. (usu derog ) clever in using indirect or deceitful methods to get what one wants; cunning
crag	 n. high, steep or rugged mass of rock
craggy	having many crags
cram	~ sth (into sth/in) push or force too much of sth into sth
cramp	sudden and painful tightening of the muscles, usu caused by cold or too much exercise, making movement difficult
cramped	with small letters close together, and therefore difficult to read ,
crane	large bird with long legs, neck and beak
cranium	n. (anatomy ) bony part of the head enclosing the brain; skull ;
crank	n. L-shaped bar and handle for converting to-and-fro movement to circular movement
cranky	strange; eccentric
crash	(usu sing ) (loud noise made by a) violent fall, blow or breakage
crass	complete; very great; utter
crate	large wooden container for transporting goods
crater	hole in the top of a volcano .
cravat	 n. short strip of decorative material worn by men round the neck, folded inside the collar of a shirt
crave	~ sth have a strong desire for sth
craven	 adj. cowardly
craving	n. ~ strong desire
crawl	move slowly, with the body on or close to the ground, or on hands and knees
crayon	 n. pencil or stick of soft coloured chalk, wax or charcoal, used for drawing
crazy	(infml ) insane
creak	v. make a harsh sound like that of an unoiled door-hinge, or badly-fitting floor-boards when trodden on
cream	thick yellowish-white liquid that is the fatty part of milk
creamery	place where milk, cream, butter, etc are sold
creamy	 adj. looking and feeling like cream; containing much cream
crease	line made on cloth, paper, etc by crushing, folding or pressing
create	cause to exist; make (sth new or original)
creation	action of creating
creative	of or involving creation
creativity	 n.
creature	living being, esp an animal
credence	 n. attach/give credence to sth (fml ) believe (gossip, reports, etc)
credential	 something that entitles a person to confidence, authority, etc.
credibility	quality of being believable
credible	 adj. that can be believed; believable
credibly	 adv: I am credibly informed that..., ie I have been told by sb who can be believed
credit	permission to delay payment for goods and services until after they have been received; system of paying in this way
creditable	 adj. ~ deserving praise (although perhaps not outstandingly good); bringing credit1(
creditably	 adv: She performed very creditably in the exam
creditor	 n. person to whom money is owed
credo	n. creed
credulity	n. too great a readiness to believe things
credulous	adj. too ready to believe things
creed	system of beliefs or opinions, esp religious beliefs
creek	narrow stretch of water flowing inland from a coast; inlet ;
creep	move slowly, quietly or stealthily, esp crouching low
cremate	v. burn to ashes, esp ceremonially at a funeral
cremation	n. cremating
crematory	A place for cremating dead bodies.
crept	pt, pp of creep
crepuscular	of or like twilight; dim
crescendo	adj. adv of or with increasing loudness
crest	tuft of feathers on a bird's head
crestfallen	adj. sad because of unexpected failure, disappointment, etc
cretin	person who is deformed and of very low intelligence because of a disease of the thyroid gland
crevasse	 n. deep open crack in the ice of a glacier
crevice	,
crew	people working on a ship, an aircraft, an oil-rig, etc
cricket	n. small brown jumping insect that makes a shrill sound by rubbing its front wings together
crime	offence for which one may be punished by law
criminal	of or being crime
criminality	the state or quality of being criminal
criminology	n. scientific study of crime
crimp	v. press (cloth, paper, etc) into small folds or ridges
cringe	~ move back or lower one's body in fear; cower
cringing	 [ cringe: ] to shrink or flinch, esp. in fear or servility
crinkle	n. wrinkle or thin crease, esp in material such as tin foil or paper, or in skin ,
cripple	n. person who is unable to walk or move properly because of disease or injury to the spine or legs
crisis	 n. time of great difficulty or danger; decisive moment in illness, life, history, etc
crisp	(esp of food) hard, dry and easily broken
crisscross	 to move or cause to move in a crosswise pattern
criteria	 n. (pl of criterion) standard by which sth is judged
criterion	n. standard by which sth is judged
critic	person who expresses a low opinion of sb/sth, points out faults in sb/sth, etc
critical	~ looking for faults; pointing out faults
critically	* He is critically ill
criticism	looking for faults; pointing out faults
criticize	to judge (something) with disapproval; censure
criticized	 [ criticize: ] to judge (something) with disapproval; censure
critique	 n. critical analysis
croak	n. deep hoarse sound, like that made by a frog
crochet	n. method of making fabric by looping thread into a pattern of connected stitches, using a hooked needle (called a crochet-hook)
crockery	 n. cups, plates, dishes, etc made of baked clay ,
crone	n. ugly withered old woman
cronyism	 partiality to cronies especially as evidenced in the appointment of political hangers-on to office without regard to their qualifications
crook	person who is habitually dishonest
crooked	not straight or level; twisted, bent or curved
croon	v. ~ (to sb) hum, sing or say (sth) softly and gently
crop	amount of grain, hay, fruit, etc grown in one year or season
cross	mark made by drawing one line across another, eg x or + +
crossbreed	to breed (animals or plants) using parents of different races, varieties, breeds, etc.
crossfire	(etc.)
crosswalk	n. = pedestrian crossing (pedestrian)
crotchet	 n. (music ) note equal to half a minim .
crotchety	adj. bad-tempered
crouch	 v. lower the body by bending the knees, eg in fear or to hide
crow	any of various types of large black bird with a harsh cry .
crowbar	n. straight iron bar, usu with a hooked end, used as a lever to open crates, move heavy objects, etc
crowd	large number of people gathered together in the open
crown	ornamental head-dress made of gold, jewels, etc worn by a king or queen on official occasions
crucial	adj. ~ very important; decisive
crucible	pot in which metals are melted
crude	in the natural state; unrefined
crudely	* express oneself crudely
crudity	state or quality of being crude (
cruel	(derog ) ~ (to sb/sth) (of people) making others suffer, esp intentionally
cruelly	adv: I was cruelly deceived
cruelty	~ readiness to cause pain or suffering to others; cruel actions
cruet	small glass bottle containing oil or vinegar for use at meals
cruise	sail about, either for pleasure or, in wartime, looking for enemy ships
cruiser	= cruiser (cruise)
crumb	very small piece, esp of bread, cake or biscuit, which has fallen off a larger piece
crumble	~ (into/to sth); ~ (sth) (up) (cause sth to) be broken or rubbed into very small pieces
crumbling	[ crumble: ] to break or be broken into crumbs or fragments
crumple	~ (into sth); ~ (sth) (up) (cause sth to) be pressed or crushed into folds or creases
crunch	~ sth crush sth noisily with the teeth when eating
crusade	any one of the military expeditions by the European Christian countries to recover the Holy Land from the Muslims in the Middle Ages
crusader	 n. person taking part in a crusade
crush	press or squeeze hard so that there is breakage or injury
crust	hard outer surface of a loaf of bread; pastry covering of a pie, tart, etc
crustacean	;
crustaceous	Having a crust-like shell.
crutch	support in the form of a pole, placed under the armpit to help a lame person to walk
crux	 n. most vital or difficult part of a matter, an issue, etc
cry	~ (for/over sth/sb); ~ (with sth) weep; shed (tears)
cryogenic	adj.
crypt	n. room beneath the floor of a church
cryptic	adj. with a meaning that is hidden or not easily understood; mysterious
cryptically	adv: `Yes and no,' she replied cryptically. ,
cryptogram	 n. message written in code
crystal	transparent colourless mineral, such as quartz
crystallize	To bring together or give fixed shape to.
crystallized	 [ crystallize: ] to form or cause to form crystals; assume or cause to assume a crystalline form or structure
cub	young fox, bear, lion, tiger, etc
cube	(geometry ) solid body with six equal square sides
cubic	having the volume of a cube with sides of the specified length
cubicle	n. small compartment made by separating off part of a larger room, eg for dressing, undressing or sleeping in
cuckoo	 n. migratory bird with a call that sounds like its name, that leaves its eggs in the nests of other birds
cucumber	long green-skinned fleshy vegetable used raw in sandwiches and salads, or pickled
cuddle	hold close and lovingly in one's arms
cudgel	short thick stick or club
cue	~ thing said or done to signal sb's turn to say or do sth, esp in a theatrical or other performance
cuff	end of a coat or shirt sleeve at the wrist
cuirass	n. piece of armour protecting the upper body, consisting of a breastplate and back-plate fastened together
cuisine	n. (style of) cooking
cul-de-sac	 n. (French ) street open at one end only; blind alley ;
culinary	 adj. of or for cooking
cull	kill (a certain number of usu weaker animals) in a herd, in order to reduce its size
culminate	v. ~ in sthhave the specified final conclusion or result
culmination	n. eventual conclusion or result
culpability	n.
culpable	 adj. ~ deserving blame; blameworthy
culprit	n. person who has done sth wrong; offender
cult	system of religious worship, esp one that is expressed in rituals
cultivate	prepare and use (land, soil, etc) for growing crops
cultivated	 adj. having or showing good taste and refinement
cultivation	n. cultivating or being cultivated
culture	refined understanding and appreciation of art, literature, etc
culvert	;
cumber	 hold back
cumbersome	heavy and difficult to carry, wear, etc
cumulative	 adj. gradually increasing in amount, force, etc by one addition after another
cumulus	n. cloud formed of rounded masses heaped on a flat base
cunning	clever at deceiving people
cunningly	adv: cunningly concealed
cup	small bowl-shaped container, usu with a handle, for drinking tea, coffee, etc from; its contents; the amount it will hold
cupboard	set of shelves with a door or doors in front, either built into the wall of a room or as a separate piece of furniture, used for storing food, clothes, dishes, etc
cupidity	 n. greed, esp for money or possessions
cur	vicious or bad-tempered dog, esp a mongrel
curable	adj. that can be cured
curate	clergyman who helps a parish priest
curative	 adj. helping to, able to or intended to cure illness, etc
curator	n. person in charge of a museum, an art gallery, etc
curb	~ thing that restrains or controls
curd	thick soft substance formed when milk turns sour, used to make cheese
curdle	 v. form into curds
cure	~ sb (of sth) make sb healthy again
curfew	 n. signal or time after which people must stay indoors until the next day
curio	n. small object that is quite rare or unusual
curiosity	~ being curious(1a); inquisitiveness
curious	~ (approv ) eager to know or learn
curl	thing, esp a small bunch of hair, that curves round and round like a spiral or the thread of a screw
curly	adj. curling; full of curls
curmudgeon	 n. bad-tempered person
curmudgeonly	 adj. a curmudgeonly person, act
currency	money system in use in a country
current	of the present time; happening now
currently	adv. at the present time
currents	 [ current: ] of the immediate present; in progress
curriculum	 n. subjects included in a course of study or taught at a particular school, college, etc
currish	base and cowardly
curry	n. dish of meat, fish, vegetables, etc cooked with certain hot-tasting spices, usu served with rice
curse	impolite or obscene word or words used to express violent anger
cursed	 adj. hateful; unpleasant
cursive	adj. with letters rounded and joined together
cursorily	adv.
cursory	adj. done quickly and not thoroughly; (too) hurried
curt	 adj. (of a speaker, his manner, what he says) rudely brief; abrupt
curtail	v. make shorter or less; reduce
curtain	(US drape) piece of material hung to cover a window, and usu movable sideways
curtsey	n. bend of the knees with one foot in front of the other, performed by women as a sign of respect, eg to a monarch
curtsy	 A downward movement of the body by bending the knees.
curvaceous	 adj. (of a woman) having an attractively rounded figure
curve	line of which no part is straight and which changes direction without angles
curved	 [ curve: ] a continuously bending line that has no straight parts
cushion	,
cushy	(esp of a job) not requiring much effort
cussed	 adj. (of people) unwilling to agree or co-operate; obstinate; contrary (3)
custodian	n. person who takes care of or looks after sth
custody	taking care of sb/sth
custom	usual, generally accepted and long-established way of behaving or doing things
customary	adj. according to custom; usual
customer	person who buys sth from a tradesman, shop, etc
customs	taxes payable to the Government on goods imported from other countries; import duties
cut	make an opening, slit or wound in (sth) with a sharp-edged tool,(eg a knife or a pair of scissors)
cute	attractive; pretty and charming
cuticle	n. skin at the base of a finger-nail or toe-nail .
cutlery	n. knives, forks and spoons used for eating and serving food
cutter	person or thing that cuts
cuttlefish	 n. sea animal with ten arms(tentacles), which sends out black fluid when threatened
cyan	 a highly saturated green-blue that is the complementary colour of red and forms, with magenta and yellow, a set of primary colour
cycle	series of events that are regularly repeated in the same order
cyclic	 adj. recurring in cycles; regularly repeated
cyclical	 [ cyclic: ] recurring or revolving in cycles
cyclically	 adv.
cycloid	Like a circle.
cyclone	system of winds turning round a calm area of low pressure
cyclonic	 adj. of or like a cyclone
cygnet	 n. young swan
cylinder	(geometry ) solid or hollow curved body with circular ends and straight sides
cylindrical	adj. cylinder-shaped
cynic	person who believes that people do not do things for good, sincere or noble reasons, but only for their own advantage
cynical	of or like a cynic
cynicism	 n. cynical attitude
cynosure	 n. person or thing that attracts everybody's attention or admiration; centre of attraction
cypress	n. type of tall thin cone-bearing evergreen tree with dark leaves and hard wood .
cytology	 the branch of biology that studies the structure and function of cells
dabble	~ sth splash (hands, feet, etc) around in water
dabbler	n: He's not a dedicated musician, just a dabbler. ,
dabbling	 [ dabble: ] to dip, move, or splash (the fingers, feet, etc.) in a liquid
Dad	n. father
daft	 adj. (infml ) foolish; silly
dagger	short pointed two-edged knife used as a weapon
daguerreotype	n. early type of photograph using a chemically treated plate
daily	done, produced or happening every day
dainty	(of things) small and pretty
dairy	place where milk is kept and milk products are made
dais	 n. raised platform, esp at one end of a room, for a speaker, etc
dalliance	n. frivolous behaviour, esp flirtation
dally	~ (over sth) waste time
dam	barrier built across a river to hold back the water and form a reservoir, prevent flooding, etc
damage	~ loss of value, attractiveness or usefulness caused by an event, accident, etc
damn	condemn (sb) to suffer in hell
damning	adj. very unfavourable
damp	not completely dry; slightly wet
damped	 [ damp: ] slightly wet, as from dew, steam, etc.
dampen	make damp
damper	movable metal plate that controls the flow of air into a fire in a stove, furnace, etc
dampish	[ damp: ] slightly wet, as from dew, steam, etc.
dampness	 n.
damsel	girl; young unmarried woman ;
dance	(series of) movements and steps in time to music
dancer	 person who dances
dander	 n. get sb's/one's dander up (infml ) make sb/become angry
dandified	adj. like or typical of a dandy
dandify	to dress like or cause to resemble a dandy
dandy	n. man who cares too much about the smartness of his clothes and his appearance
Dane	 n. native of Denmark
danger	~ chance of suffering damage, loss, injury, etc; risk
dangerous	adj. ~ likely to cause danger or be a danger
dangle	hang or swing loosely
Danish	 n, adj of Denmark and the Danes
dank	 adj. unpleasantly damp and cold
dapper	 adj. (usu of a small person) neat and smart in appearance; nimble in movement
dappled	adj. having patches of different colour or shades of colour
dappling	 [ dapple: ] to mark or become marked with spots or patches of a different colour; mottle
dare	 modal v. have sufficient courage or impudence (to do sth) ; (used esp in negative sentences and questions, after if/whether, or with hardly, never, no one, nobody , if/whether, hardly never no one nobody)
daredevil	n. person who is foolishly bold or reckless
daring	 n. adventurous courage; boldness
dark	the dark absence of light
darken	become dark
darkle	 to grow dark; darken
darkness	 n. state of being dark
darling	n. person or thing much liked or loved
darn	 v. mend by passing a thread through the material in two directions
dart	small pointed missile used as a weapon or in the game of darts
Darwinism	The doctrine that natural selection has been the prime cause of evolution of higher forms.
dash	~ sudden forward movement
dashboard	n. board or panel below the windscreen of a motor vehicle, carrying various instruments and controls .
dashing	adj. lively and exciting
dastard	a person who acts treacherously or underhandedly
data	 n. facts or information used in deciding or discussing sth
date	specific numbered day of the month, or specific year, usu given to show when sth happened or is to happen
datum	A premise, starting-point, or given fact.
daub	~ A on ~ B (with A) put (a soft substance) on (a surface) in a rough or careless way
daughter	 n. one's female child .
daunt	discourage (sb); frighten
daunted	[ daunt: ] to intimidate
daunting	 adj. discouraging; frightening
dauntless	adj. not easily discouraged or frightened
dawdle	 v. be slow; waste time
dawdler	person who is slow/waste of time
dawn	time of day when light first appears; daybreak
day	time between sunrise and sunset
daylight	light during daytime
daytime	n. time between sunrise and sunset
daze	 v. make (sb) confused and unable to react properly
dazzle	 v. blind (sb) briefly with too much light, brilliance, etc
dazzled	to blind or be blinded partially and temporarily by sudden excessive light
dazzling	 adj. a dazzling display of sporting skill
deactivate	 to make inactive or ineffective
dead	no longer alive
deaden	lessen the force or intensity of
deadlock	 n. complete failure to reach agreement or to settle a quarrel or grievance
deadly	causing, or likely to cause, death
deadpan	marked by an impassive matter-of-fact manner, style, or expression
deaf	unable to hear at all or to hear well
deafen	 v. make (sb) feel deaf or unable to hear sounds around him by making a very loud noise
deafening	adj. very loud
deal	 n. (planks of) fir or pine wood
dealer	person who distributes playing-cards
dealing	way of behaving, esp in business
dealt	pt, pp of deal3
dean	clergyman who is head of a cathedral chapter
dear	~ (to sb) loved (by sb); greatly valued
dearth	 n. ~ shortage; scarcity
death	dying or being killed
debacle	n. sudden and complete failure; fiasco
debar	to exclude from a place, a right, etc.; bar
debark	 v. ~ (from sth) = disembark
debarkation	n. = disembarkation
debase	lower the quality, status or value of
debatable	adj. not certain; open to question; arguable
debate	 n. formal argument or discussion of a question, eg at a public meeting or in Parliament, with two or more opposing speakers, and often ending in a vote
debauch	v. make act immorally by using bad influence
debauchery	 n. immoral behaviour, esp in sexual matters
debenture	n. certificate given by a business corporation, etc as a receipt for money lent at a fixed rate of interest until the loan is repaid
debilitate	 v. make very weak
debilitation	 [ debilitate: ] to make feeble; weaken
debility	 n. physical weakness
debit	n. (in bookkeeping) written note in an account of a sum owed or paid out
debonair	 adj. cheerful and self-assured
debouch	v. ~ (military ) (of troops) come out into open ground
debrief	v. question (a soldier, an astronaut, a diplomat, etc) esp about a mission that he has just completed
debris	 n. scattered fragments; wreckage
debt	sum of money owed to sb that has not yet been paid
debtor	 n. person who owes money to sb
debunk	 v. show that the reputation of is undeserved or exaggerated
debut	n. first appearance in public as a performer
debutante	n. young woman making her first appearance in fashionable society
decade	 n. period of ten years
decadence	n. (falling to a) lower level (in morals, art, literature, etc) esp after a period at a high level
decadent	 adj. depraved,
decagon	A figure with ten sides and ten angles.
decagram	 A weight of 10 grams.
decaliter	A liquid and dry measure of 10 liters.
decalogue	n. the Decalogue the Ten Commandments given to Moses by God
decameter	A length of ten meters.
decamp	~ go away suddenly and often secretly (taking sth with one)
decant	 v. ~ sth pour (wine, etc) from a bottle into another container, esp slowly so that the sediment is left behind
decanter	 n. glass bottle with a stopper into which wine, etc may be decanted before serving .
decapitate	 v. cut the head off
decapod	Ten-footed or ten-armed.
decasyllabic	 [ decasyllable: ] adjectiv
decay	become bad; rot; decompose
decease	n. death (of a person)
deceit	deliberately leading sb to believe or accept sth that is false, usu so as to get sth for oneself; deceiving
deceitful	often deceiving people; dishonest
deceitfulness	n.
deceive	~ sb/oneself make sb believe sth that is not true (so as to make him do sth); deliberately mislead sb
decelerate	 v. slow down
deceleration	 n. slowing down or being caused to slow down
December	 n. the twelfth month of the year, next after November
decency	quality of being or appearing as respectable people would wish
decent	proper; acceptable
decentralize	 to reorganize (a government, industry, etc.) into smaller more autonomous units
deception	deceiving or being deceived
deceptive	adj. likely to deceive; misleading
deceptively	adv.
deceptiveness	[ deceptive: ] likely or designed to deceive; misleading
decibel	n. unit for measuring the relative loudness of sounds, or for measuring power levels in electrical communications
decide	settle give a judgement on (sth)
decided	clear; definite
decidedly	[ decided: ] unmistakable
deciduous	adj. that loses its leaves annually, usu in autumn
decimal	adj. based on or reckoned in tens or tenths
decimate	 v. kill or destroy a large part of (sth)
decimation	 n.
decipher	 v. succeed in understanding
decipherable	 adj. that can be deciphered
decision	~ ~ (to do sth) deciding; making up one's mind
decisive	having a particular, important or conclusive effect
decisively	 adv: act, answer decisively
decisiveness	 (n.) an act of being firm or determined
deck	any of the floors of a ship in or above the hull
declaim	speak as if addressing an audience
declamation	n. declaiming
declamatory	adj. formal and rhetorical; with great feeling
declaration	declaring; formally announcing
declarative	Containing a formal, positive, or explicit statement or affirmation.
declare	formally announce (sth); make known clearly
declassify	 v. declare (information) to be no longer secret
declension	 n. varying the endings of nouns and pronouns according to their function in a sentence
declination	n. deviation of the needle of a compass, east or west from true north
decline	say `no' to (sth); refuse (sth offered), usu politely
declined	 [ decline: ] to refuse to do or accept (something), esp. politely
declining	[ decline: ] to refuse to do or accept (something), esp. politely
declivity	n. downward slope
decode	 v. find the meaning of (sth written in code)
decoded	[ decode: ] to convert (a message, text, etc.) from code into ordinary language
decollete	adj. (of a dress, etc) with a low neckline ,
decompose	become bad or rotten; decay
decomposition	n.
decontaminate	v. remove contamination from (a building, clothes, an area, etc)
decor	n. furnishing and decoration of a room, stage, etc
decorate	~ sth make sth (more) beautiful by adding ornaments to it
decoration	decorating or being decorated
decorative	 adj. that makes sth look beautiful
decorous	 adj. dignified and socially acceptable
decorum	n. dignified and socially acceptable behaviour
decoy	n. (real or imitation) bird or animal used to attract others so that they can be shot or trapped
decrease	 v. become smaller or fewer; diminish
decree	order given by a ruler or an authority and having the force of a law
decrepit	 adj. made weak by age or hard use
decrepitude	n. state of being decrepit
decry	v. ~ sb/sth (as sth) speak critically of sb/sth to make him/it seem less valuable, useful, etc; disparage sb/sth
dedicate	~ oneself/sth to sth give or devote to(a noble cause or purpose)
dedicated	devoted to sth; committed
dedication	devotion to a cause or an aim
deduce	 v. ~ sth arrive at (facts, a theory, etc) by reasoning; infer sth
deducible	adj. that may be deduced
deduct	 v. ~ sth take away (an amount or a part)
deduction	reasoning from general principles to a particular case; deducing
deductive	adj. of, using or reasoning by deduction
deed	act; thing done
deem	 v. consider; regard
deep	extending a long way from top to bottom
deepen	 v. become deep or deeper
deeply	a long way down or through sth
deer	 n. any of several types of graceful, quick-running, ruminant animal, the male of which has antlers .
deface	 v. spoil the appearance or legibility of by marking or damaging the surface
defacement	 n. defacing or being defaced
defalcate	misuse money held in trust
defamation	 n. defaming or being defamed
defamatory	 adj. intended to defame
defame	 v. attack the good reputation of say bad things about (sb)
default	failure to do sth, esp to pay a debt or appear in court
defeat	win a victory over (sb); overcome
defeatism	n. attitude or behaviour that shows one expects not to succeed
defeatist	n. person who shows defeatism . -- adj
defecate	 v. push out waste from the body through the anus
defect	 n. fault or lack that spoils a person or thing
defection	 ,
defective	adj. ~ having a defect or defects; imperfect or incomplete
defence	~ defending from attack; fighting against attack
defend	~ sb/sth protect sb/sth from harm; guard sb/sth ;
defendant	n. person accused or sued in a legal case
defended	 [ defend: ] to protect (a person, place, etc.) from harm or danger; ward off an attack on
defense	[ defence: ] resistance against danger, attack, or harm; protection
defensible	 adj. that can be defended
defensive	used for or intended for defending
defer	v. ~ sth (to sth) delay sth until a later time; postpone sth
deference	giving way to the views, wishes, etc of others, usu out of respect; respect
deferential	adj. showing deference
deferrable	 [ defer: ] to delay or cause to be delayed until a future time; postpone
defiance	open disobedience or resistance; refusal to give way to authority or opposition; defying
defiant	adj. showing defiance; openly opposing or resisting sb/sth
deficiency	state of lacking sth essential
deficient	adj. ~ in sth lacking in sth
deficit	n. amount by which sth, esp a sum of money, is too small
defile	make (sth) dirty or impure
defilement	 n. defiling or being defiled
define	~ sth state precisely the meaning of (eg words)
defined	[ define: ] to state precisely the meaning of (words, terms, etc.)
definite	 adj. clear; not doubtful
definitely	in a definite manner
definition	stating the exact meaning (of words, etc)
definitive	 adj. clear and having final authority; that cannot or need not be changed
deflate	 let air or gas out of (a balloon, tyre, etc); let down
deflated	 [ deflate: ] to collapse or cause to collapse through the release of gas
deflect	~ (from sth) (cause sth to) turn from its direction of movement
deflection	deflecting (deflect 1) or being deflected
defoliant	n. chemical used on trees and plants to destroy the leaves
defoliate	v. destroy the leaves of
deforest	 v. remove forests from
deforestation	n.
deform	 v. spoil the shape or appearance of
deformation	n. process of deforming
deformity	n. being deformed
defraud	v. ~ sb get sth from sb by deception; cheat sb
defray	 v. provide money for (sth); pay for (sth)
defrock	v. = unfrock
deft	 adj. ~ skilful and quick, esp with the hands
defunct	adj. (of people) dead
defuse	remove or make useless the device that sets off
defy	disobey or refuse to respect (sb, an authority, etc)
degeneracy	 A becoming worse.
degenerate	 v. ~ (into sth) pass into a worse physical, mental or moral state than one which is considered normal or desirable
degradation	n. degrading or being degraded
degrade	cause to be less moral and less deserving of respect
degree	unit of measurement for angles
dehumanize	 deprive of human qualities
dehydrate	remove water or moisture from
dehydration	n. loss of water or moisture
deice	make or become free of frost or ice
deification	n. deifying or being deified
deify	v. make a god of (sb/sth); worship as a god
deign	v. be kind or gracious enough (to do sth); condescend
deism	n. belief in the existence of God that is based more on natural laws of the world than on divine revelation
deist	n. person who holds such a belief
deity	god or goddess
deject	 to make gloomy
dejected	 adj. depressed; sad
dejection	n. sad or dejected state; depression
delay	be slow or late
delectable	 adj. (esp of food) delightful; pleasant
delectation	n. enjoyment; entertainment
delegate	 n. person chosen or elected by others to express their views
delegation	delegating or being delegated
delete	 v. ~ sth cross out or deliberately omit (sth written or printed)
deleterious	adj. ~ (fml ) harmful
deliberate	done on purpose; intentional
deliberately	 adv. unhurriedly
deliberation	careful consideration or discussion
delicacy	softness or tenderness when touched
delicate	soft or tender when touched; made of sth fine or thin
delicately	 [ delicate: ] exquisite, fine, or subtle in quality, character, construction, etc.
delicious	adj. giving pleasure, esp to the senses of taste and smell
delight	great pleasure; joy
delighted	adj. ~ very pleased; showing delight
delightful	 adj. ~ giving delight
delimit	v. fix the limits or boundaries of
delineate	v. show (sth) by drawing or describing; portray
delinquency	n. minor crime such as vandalism, esp when committed by young people
delinquent	 n, adj doing wrong or failing to perform a duty
deliquesce	 To dissolve gradually and become liquid by absorption of moisture from the air.
deliquescent	 adj. becoming liquid by absorbing moisture from the air
delirious	suffering from delirium
delirium	mental disturbance caused by illness, resulting in restlessness and often wild talk
deliver	~ (to sb/sth) take (letters, parcels, goods, etc) to the places or people they are addressed to
deliverer	person who delivers (deliver 1
delivery	delivering (of letters, goods, etc)
delta	the fourth letter of the Greek alphabet }
delude	 v. ~ sb deliberately mislead sb; deceive sb
deluge	great flood or rush of water
delusion	deluding or being deluded
delusive	 adj. not real; misleading
delve	~ in/into sth search or rummage in sth
demagnetize	To deprive (a magnet) of magnetism.
demagogue	n. political leader who tries to win people's support by using emotional and often unreasonable arguments
demagogy	 n. principles and methods of a demagogue
demand	 n. ~ (for sth/that...) command, or sth which is given as if it was a command
demandable	 [ demand: ] to request peremptorily or urgently
demanding	adj. (of a task, etc) needing much patience, skill, effort, etc
demarcate	v. mark or fix the limits of
demarcation	n. limit or boundary, esp between types of work considered by trade unions to belong to workers in different trades
demean	 v. ~ oneself lower oneself in dignity; deprive oneself of others' respect
demeanor	 behavior; bearing ; behavioral attributes
demeanour	n. way of behaving; conduct
demented	 adj. mad
demerit	n. fault; defect
demesne	n. possession and use of land as one's own property
demise	death
demobilize	 relieve from military service
democracy	system of government by the whole people of a country, esp through representatives whom they elect
democratic	based on the principles of democracy
democratically	 adv: democratically elected, decided, etc
demographer	n. expert in such studies
demographic	related to population balance
demography	 n. study of statistics of births, deaths, diseases, etc in order to show the state of a community
demolish	pull or knock down (a building, etc)
demolition	especially :destruction in war by means of explosives
demon	wicked or cruel spirit
demoniac	 adj. very evil; devilish
demonstrable	 adj. that can be shown or proved
demonstrate	~ sth (to sb) show sth clearly by giving proof or evidence
demonstration	showing sth by giving proof or evidence
demonstrative	(of people) showing the feelings readily
demonstratively	[ demonstrative: ] tending to manifest or express one's feelings easily or unreservedly
demonstrator	person who teaches or explains by demonstrating (demonstrate
demoralize	c:to throw into disorder
demote	 v. ~ sb (to sth) reduce sb to a lower rank or grade
demotic	adj. of or used by ordinary people
demulcent	Any application soothing to an irritable surface
demur	v. ~ (at sth) (fml ) express a doubt (about sth) or an objection (to sth)
demure	 adj. (pretending to be) quiet, serious and modest
demurrage	the detention of a vessel beyond the specified time of sailing.
demystification	n. action of making sth less mysterious
demystify	v. make (sth) less mysterious; make clear
den	animal's hidden home, eg a cave
dendroid	 Like a tree.
dendrology	 The natural history of trees.
denial	~ statement that sth is not true
denigrate	v. claim that (sb/sth) is inferior, worthless, etc; belittle
denigration	n.
denizen	n. person or type of animal or plant living or growing permanently in a place
denominate	 To give a name or epithet to.
denomination	name, esp of a general class or type; classification
denominational	 adj. of denominations
denominator	4
denotation	 meaning; distinguishing by name
denotative	 able to denote; designative
denote	 v. be the name, sign or symbol of (sth); refer to
denouement	 n. last part, esp of a novel, play, etc, in which everything is settled or made clear
denounce	~ sb (to sb) (as sth) give information (to the authorities) against sb
dense	very heavy in relation to each unit of volume
density	quality of being dense(1b
dent	hollow place in a hard even surface made by a blow or pressure
dentifrice	 n. powder or paste used for cleaning the teeth
dentist	n. person whose work is filling, cleaning and taking out teeth, and fitting artificial teeth
denture	n. = plate 9
denude	 to strip of all covering or surface layers
denunciate	 to pronounce especially publicly to be blameworthy or evil
denunciation	 n. denouncing
deny	say that (sth) is not true
deodorant	n. substance that removes or disguises odours
depart	~ (for...) (from...) go away; leave
department	each of several divisions of a government, business, shop, university, etc
departmental	 adj. of a department, rather than the whole organization
departure	~ (from.) departing; going away
depend	that de`pends; it (all) de`pends (used alone, or at the beginning of a sentence , ) the result will be decided by sth mentioned or implied
dependability	n.
dependable	 adj. ithat may be depended on
dependant	n. person who depends on others for a home, food, etc
dependence	trust in sb/sth; reliance on sb/sth
dependency	 n. country governed or controlled by another
dependent	~ needing support from sb
depict	 v. show (sb/sth) as a picture; portray
deplete	v. reduce greatly the quantity, size, power or value of
depletion	n. depleting or being depleted
deplorable	 adj. that is, or should be, condemned
deplore	v. be shocked or offended by (sth); condemn
deploy	 v. (cause troops, etc to) move into the correct position for battle
deponent	 n. person who makes a written statement for use in a lawcourt
depopulate	 v. reduce the number of people living in
deport	 v. ~ sb legally force (a foreigner, criminal, etc) to leave a country
deportation	n. deporting or being deported
deportment	 n. (Brit) way of standing and walking; bearing
depose	remove from power
deposit	put (money) into a bank, esp to earn interest, etc
deposition	removing from power; dethronement
depositor	n. person who deposits
depository	 n. place where things, eg furniture, are stored; storehouse ;
depot	n. storehouse, esp for military supplies; warehouse ;
deprave	v. make (sb) morally bad; corrupt
depraved	 adj. morally bad; corrupt
depravity	n. state of being depraved; corruption
deprecate	v. feel and express disapproval of (sth)
deprecatory	adj. a deprecatory remark, view, etc
depreciate	become less valuable
depreciatory	 adj. depreciatory remarks about a great achievement
depredate	(rare)
depredation	n. damage caused by an attack, accident, etc
depress	make sad and without enthusiasm
depressant	 n, adj that reduces mental or physical activity
depressed	adj. sad and without enthusiasm
depression	being depressed; low spirits
deprivation	depriving or being deprived
deprive	v. ~ sb/sth of sth take sth away from sb/sth; prevent sb/sth from enjoying or using sth ;
depth	distance from the top down
depute	~ sth to sb give (one's work, authority, etc) to sb else
deputize	to appoint or act as deput
deputy	person who is given work, authority, etc
deracinate	 vt. to pull out by the roots; uproot
derail	 v. cause to go off the rails
derange	to disturb the order or arrangement of; throw into disorder; disarrange
deranged	 adj. unable to act and think normally, esp because of mental illness; seriously disturbed
derangement	n.
derelict	 adj. deserted and allowed to fall into ruins; dilapidated
dereliction	being derelict
deride	 v. ~ sb/sth treat sb/sth as funny and not worthy of serious attention; mock sb/sth
derided	[ deride: ] to speak of or treat with contempt, mockery, or ridicule; scoff or jeer at
derision	 n. ridicule or mockery
derisive	 adj. showing ridicule or mockery
derivation	development or origin
derivative	 adj. derived from sth else; not original
derive	~ sth from sth obtain sth from sth; get sth from sth
dermatologist	n. expert in dermatology
dermatology	n. medical study of the skin and its diseases, etc
derogate	 v. ~ from sth cause sth to seem inferior; detract from sth
derogatory	 adj. showing a hostile or critical attitude (to sb's reputation, etc); insulting
derrick	large crane for moving or lifting heavy weights, esp on a ship
desalinate	 v. remove salt from
desalinization	 [ desalination: ] desalinization, desalinisation
desalinize	 remove salt from
descant	n. treble accompaniment (often improvised) which is sung or played to a melody
descend	come or go down (sth)
descendant	 n. person descended from another
descent	coming or going down
describe	 v. ~ sb/sth (to/for sb); ~ sb/sth as sth say what sb/sth is like; depict sth in words
description	saying in words what sb/sth is like
descriptive	giving a picture in words
descry	 v. (fml ) see (sth) esp a long way away; catch sight of
desecrate	n. treat in an unworthy or evil way
desert	go away from (a place) without intending ever to return
deserted	 adj. with no one present
deserter	 n. person who deserts (desert1
desertification	a process by which fertile land turns into barren land or deser
desertion	n. deserting or being deserted
deserts	n. what one deserves
deserve	be sth or have done sth for which one should receive (a reward, special treatment, etc); be entitled to; merit
deserved	 [ deserve: ] vt. to be entitled to or worthy of; merit
desiccant	n. substance that absorbs moisture, and is often used to keep food in good condition
desiccate	v. remove all the moisture from to preserve it
desiccated	 dehydrated and powdered
desiccation	[ desiccate: ] vt. to remove most of the water from (a substance or material); dehydrate
desideratum	n. (fml ) thing that is lacking and needed
design	~ (for sth) drawing or outline from which sth may be made
designate	adj. appointed to a job (but not yet having officially started it)
designation	~ (as sth) appointing of sb to an office
designedly	 advintentionally; on purpose ; . designing n art of making designs
designer	 n. person whose job is designing
desirability	 n.
desirable	~ worth having; to be wished for
desire	 n. ~ (for sth/to do sth) strong sexual longing
desirous	 adj. ~ of sth/doing sth; ~ that... having a wish for (sth); wanting
desist	 v. ~ (fml ) stop sth/doing sth; cease
desk	piece of furniture with a flat or sloping top, often with drawers, at which one can read, write or do business
desolate	deserted and miserable
desolation	 n.
despair	state of having lost all hope
despairing	 adj. showing despair
desperado	n. (dated ) man who commits dangerous, esp criminal, acts without worrying about himself or other people
desperate	feeling or showing great despair and ready to do anything regardless of danger
despicable	 adj. ~ (to do sth) deserving to be despised; contemptible
despicably	 adv: behave despicably
despise	~ sb/sth (for sth) feel contempt for sb/sth; consider sb/sth as worthless
despite	prep without being affected by
despoil	v. ~sth (fml ) rob (a place) of sth valuable; plunder sth
despond	To lose spirit, courage, or hope.
despondent	 adj. ~ having or showing loss of hope; wretched
despot	 An absolute and irresponsible monarch.
despotic	 characteristic of an absolute ruler or absolute rule; having absolute sovereignty
despotism	tyranny
dessert	n. any sweet dish, (eg pie, tart, ice-cream) eaten at the end of a meal
destabilize	to undermine or subvert (a government, economy, etc.) so as to cause unrest or collapse
destabilized	 [ destabilize: ] to undermine or subvert (a government, economy, etc.) so as to cause unrest or collapse
destination	n. place to which sb/sth is going or being sent
destine	to set apart or appoint (for a certain purpose or person, or to do something); intend; design
destined	~ for sth/to do sth; be ~ that. having a future which has been decided or planned beforehand
destiny	power believed to control events
destitute	without money, food, etc and other things necessary for life; impoverished
destitution	n. being destitute
destroy	damage so badly that it no longer exists, works, etc; wreck
destructible	 adj. that can be destroyed
destruction	n. destroying or being destroyed
destructive	adj. causing destruction or serious damage
desuetude	n. fall into de`suetude (fml ) cease being used
desultory	adj. going from one thing to another, without a definite plan or purpose; unmethodical
detach	~ sth unfasten sth from sth; disconnect sth
detachable	 adj. that can be detached
detached	not influenced by others; impartial
detachment	detaching or being detached
detail	small, particular fact or item
detailed	 adj. having many details or paying great attention to details; thorough
detain	prevent from leaving or doing sth; delay
detained	 [ detain: ] to delay; hold back; stop
detect	 v. discover or recognize that (sth) is present
detection	n. detecting; discovering
detective	n. person, esp a police officer, whose job it is to investigate and solve crimes
detector	 n. device for detecting changes in pressure or temperature, metals, explosives, etc
detente	n. lessening of dangerous tension, esp between countries
detention	n. detaining or being detained, esp in prison
deter	v. ~ sb (from doing sth) make sb decide not to do sth
detergent	n. , adj that removes dirt, eg from the surface of clothes or dishes
deteriorate	v. ~ become worse in quality or condition
deterioration	n.
determinant	n, adj (thing) that determines or decides how or if sth happens
determinate	adj. limited in range or scope; definite ;
determination	~ quality of being firmly committed to doing sth; resoluteness
determine	fix (sth) precisely; decide
determined	 adj. ~ with one's mind firmly made up; resolute
determinedness	 [ determined: ] adj. of unwavering mind; resolute; firm
deterrent	n, adj that deters or is meant to deter
detest	 v. dislike very much; hate
detestable	 adj. that one hates; hateful
detonate	 v. explode; (be) set off
detonation	 n. explosion
detour	 n. route that avoids a blocked road, etc; deviation
detoxicate	 remove poison from
detoxification	 n. action of removing poison or harmful substances, eg addictive drugs
detoxify	 v. remove poison or harmful substances from (sb/sth)
detract	v. ~ from sth make sth seem less valuable or important
detraction	 n. unfair criticism of sb/sth; belittling ;
detractor	n. person who criticizes sb/sth unfairly
detriment	harm; damage
detrimental	adj. ~ harmful
detrimentally	adv: detrimentally affected
detritus	 n. matter such as sand, silt or gravel produced by the wearing away of rocks, etc ,
devastate	v. completely destroy (sth); ruin
devastated	 [ devastate: ] to lay waste or make desolate; ravage; destroy
devastating	very destructive
devastation	n. devastating or being devastated
develop	~ (from sth) (into sth) (cause sb/sth to) grow gradually; become or make more mature, advanced or organized
development	developing or being developed
deviance	 deviancy ns deviant tendencies or behaviour
deviant	n, adj (person who is) different in moral or social standards from what is considered normal
deviate	v. ~ from sth stop following
deviation	not following the normal or expected course, plan, etc; deviating
deviationism	 n. practice of political deviation
device	thing made or adapted for a special purpose
devil	the Devil supreme evil being; Satan
devilry	Malicious mischief.
devious	cunning; dishonest
deviousness	n.
devise	 v. think out (a plan, system, tool, etc); invent
devoid	 adj. ~ of sth without sth; completely lacking in sth
devolution	 n. transfer of power or authority, esp from central government to regional authorities ,
devolve	~ on/upon sb (of work, duties) be transferred or passed to sb
devote	;
devoted	adj. ~ very loving or loyal
devotee	n. person who is devoted to sth; enthusiast
devotion	~ deep strong love
devotional	 adj. of or used in religious worship
devour	eat (sth) hungrily or greedily
devout	sincerely religious; pious
dew	n. tiny drops of moisture condensed on cool surfaces from water vapour in the air, esp at night
dexterity	n. skill, esp in using one's hands
dexterous	adj. skilful with one's hands
diabetes	 n. disease of the pancreas which prevents sugar and starch being properly absorbed
diabolic	 adj. of or like a devil
diabolical	= diabolic
diabolize	To represent as diabolical
diacritic	n. adj mark (eg an accent, a diaeresis or a cedilla) placed above or below a written or printed letter to indicate different sounds
diacritical	Marking a difference.
diadem	 n. crown worn as a sign of royal power
diagnose	 v. ~ sth find out the nature of (esp an illness) by observing its symptoms
diagnosis	n. diagnosing
diagnostic	 adj. of diagnosis
diagonal	 adj. crossing a straight-sided figure, eg a rectangle, from corner to corner .
diagram	n. drawing or plan that uses simple lines rather than realistic details to explain or illustrate a machine, structure, process, etc
diagrammatic	 adj. a diagrammatic map
dial	face of a clock or watch
dialect	n. form of a language used in a part of a country or by a class of people
dialectal	adj. dialectal differences between two areas
dialectic	art of discovering and testing truths by discussion and logical argument
dialectical	adj. of or relating to dialectic
dialectician	 n. person who is skilled in dialectic
dialog	 [ dialogue: ] conversation between two or more people
dialogue	(writing in the form of a) conversation or talk
dialysis	 n. (medical) process of purifying blood by passing it through a membrane, used esp for treating patients with damaged kidneys
diameter	 n. straight line connecting the centre of a circle or sphere, or of the base of a cylinder, to two points on its sides
diamond	transparent precious stone of pure carbon in crystallized form, the hardest substance known
diaphanous	 adj. light, very fine and almost transparent
diaphragm	wall of muscle, between the chest and the abdomen, that helps to control breathing
diarrhoea	n. condition that causes waste matter to be emptied from the bowels frequently and in a watery form
diary	n. daily record of events, thoughts, appointments, etc
diatomic	 Containing only two atoms.
diatribe	 n. ~ lengthy and bitter attack in words
dichotomous	[ dichotomy: ] division into two parts or classifications, esp. when they are sharply distinguished or opposed
dichotomy	n. ~ (fml ) separation into or between two groups or things that are opposed, entirely different, etc
Dictaphone	 n. machine that records speech, esp dictated letters, and plays it back so that a secretary can type it out
dictate	~ (to sb) say or read aloud (words to be typed, written down or recorded on tape)
dictation	action of giving or taking sth dictated
dictator	ruler who has total power over his country, esp one who has obtained it by force and uses it in a cruel way
dictatorship	government by a dictator
diction	n. style or manner of speaking or (sometimes) writing
dictionary	 n. book that lists and explains the words of a language, or gives translations of them into one or more other languages, and is usu arranged in alphabetical order
dictum	 n. saying; maxim
did	pt of do
didactic	intended to teach
didactics	instructive especially excessively
die	n. block of hard metal with a design, etc cut into it, used for shaping coins, printing-type, medals, etc or for stamping paper, leather, etc so that designs stand out from the surface
diehard	strongly or fanatically determined or devoted
die-hard	 n. person who is stubborn, esp in resisting change
diesel	oil-burning engine (used eg for buses and locomotives) in which fuel is ignited by sudden compression
diet	sort of food that is usually eaten
dietetics	n. science of diet and nutrition
dietician	n. expert in dietetics
dietitian	a person who specializes in dietetic
differ	 v. ~ not be the same (as sb/sth); be unlike
difference	~ ~ (in/of sth) state or way in which two people or things are not the same, or in which sb/sth has changed
different	~ (than sb/sth) not the same (as sb/sth)
differentia	Any essential characteristic of a species by reason of which it differs from other species.
differential	 adj. of, showing or depending on a difference
differentiate	~ between A and B; ~ A (from B) see or show (two things) to be different; show sth to be different (from sth else)
differentiated	 [ differentiate: ] vt. to serve to distinguish between
difficult	~ (of tasks) requiring effort or skill; not easy
difficulty	~ state or quality of being difficult; trouble or effort that sth involves
diffidence	 shyness
diffident	adj. ~ not having or showing much belief in one's own abilities; lacking self-confidence
diffuse	spread all around; send out in all directions
diffusion	n. diffusing or being diffused
dig	use one's hands, a spade, a machine, etc to break up and move (earth, etc); advance by doing this
digest	 n. short condensed account; summary
digestible	 adjthat can be digested
digestion	n. digesting
digestive	adj. of digestion
digit	any of the ten Arabic numerals 0 to 9 09
digital	showing amounts by means of numbers
dignitary	n. person with a high rank or position
dignity	quality that earns or deserves respect; true worth
digraph	n. two letters that represent a single sound
digress	v. ~ turn or wander (from the main topic) in speech or writing
digressing	 [ digress: ] to depart from the main subject in speech or writing
digression	 n. digressing
digressive	 wandering away from the subject
dilapidate	 to bring into a condition of decay or partial ruin
dilapidated	adj. falling to pieces; in a bad state of repair
dilapidation	 n.
dilate	become wider, larger or further open
dilated	[ dilate: ] to expand or cause to expand; make or become wider or larger
dilatory	 adj. ~ (in doing sth) slow in acting
dilemma	situation in which one has to choose between two undesirable things or courses of action
dilettante	 n. (often derog ) person who studies or does sth, but without serious interest or understanding
dilettantish	 adj. a dilettantish follower of the arts
dilettantism	 [ dilettante: ] a person whose interest in a subject is superficial rather than professional
diligence	n. ~ steady effort; careful hard work
diligent	 adj. ~ showing care and effort (in what one does); hard-working
diligently	 adv.
dilute	make (a liquid or colour) thinner or weaker (by adding water or another liquid)
diluted	[ dilute: ] to make or become less concentrated, esp. by adding water or a thinner
dilution	 n. diluting or being diluted
dim	where or which one cannot see well; not bright
dime	10.
dimension	measurement of any sort
dimensional	a measurement of the size of something in a particular direction, such as the length, width, height, or diameter
diminish	become smaller or less; decrease
diminished	 reduced or lessened; made smaller
diminishing	[ diminish: ] to make or become smaller, fewer, or less
diminuendo	 adj. adv of or with a gradual decrease in loudness
diminution	 n. diminishing or being diminished; reduction
diminutive	unusually or remarkably small
dimple	 n. small natural hollow in the chin or cheek (either permanent, or which appears eg when a person smiles) ,
din	n. continuing loud confused noise
dine	~ (fml ) eat dinner
dinghy	 n. any of various types of small open boat
dingus	 an ornamental attachment or decoration:DOODAD
dingy	adj. dirty-looking; not cheerful or bright; drab
dinner	main meal of the day, whether eaten at midday or in the evening
dinosaur	 n. large extinct reptile
dint	= dent
diocesan	 adj. of a diocese
diocese	n. district for which a bishop is responsible
diorama	a picture (or series of pictures) representing a continuous scene
dioxide	n. oxide formed by combining two atoms of oxygen and one atom of another element
dip	~ sth (into sth); ~ sth (in) put or lower sth into a liquid
diphthong	/ aI; aI/; doubtou
diploma	n. certificate awarded for passing an examination, completing a course of study, etc
diplomacy	management of relations between countries by each country's representatives abroad; skill in this
diplomat	person in the diplomatic service, eg an ambassador
diplomatic	of diplomacy
diplomatist	n. = diplomat
dipsomania	 n. extreme dependence on alcoholic drink
dipsomaniac	n, adj suffering from dipsomania
dire	dreadful; terrible
direct	straight; not curved or crooked; not turned aside
direction	course taken by a moving person or thing; way that a person or thing looks or faces
directive	n. official instruction
directly	in a direct line or manner; straight
directness	 n.
director	person who manages, esp as a member of a board1(7), the affairs of a business company
directorship	 n. position of a director
directory	n. list of telephone subscribers, business firms, etc of an area, or members of a profession, etc, usu arranged alphabetically
direful	causing fear or dread or terror
dirge	n. song sung at a burial or for a dead person
dirk	 n. type of dagger
dirt	matter that is not clean esp when it is where it is not wanted (eg on the skin, on clothes, in buildings)
dirty	not clean; covered with dirt
disability	state of being disabled; incapacity
disable	v. make unable to do sth, esp by making a limb or limbs useless
disabuse	 v. ~ sb of sth free sb of (false ideas)
disadvantage	unfavourable condition; thing that tends to prevent sb succeeding, making progress, etc
disaffect	to cause to lose loyalty or affection; alienate
disaffected	adj. discontented; disloyal
disaffection	 n. discontent that often leads to disloyalty
disagree	~ (with sb/sth) (about/on sth) have a different opinion (from sb); not agree
disagreeable	 adj. unpleasant
disagreement	~ disagreeing; lack of agreement
disallow	 v. refuse to accept as valid
disappear	no longer be visible; vanish
disappearance	n. act or fact of disappearing
disappoint	fail to be or do sth as good, interesting etc as was hoped for or desired or expected by
disappointed	 adj. ~ (in/with sb/sth); ~ (to do sth/that...) sad or dissatisfied because sb has failed, some desired event has not happened, etc
disappointing	adj. causing sb to be disappointed
disappointment	being disappointed
disapprobation	 n. disapproval
disapproval	n. not approving
disapprove	 v. ~ consider (sb/sth) to be bad, immoral, foolish, etc
disapproving	 adj. showing disapproval
disarm	take weapons away from
disarmament	n. disarming or being disarmed
disarrange	 v. make (sth) disorderly or untidy
disarray	 n. state in which people or things are no longer properly organized
disaster	event that causes great harm or damage, eg a fire, a serious defeat, the loss of a large sum of money
disastrous	 adj. being or causing a disaster
disavow	v. say one does not know of, is not responsible for, or does not approve of (sth)
disavowal	n.
disband	v. stop operating as an organization; break up
disbar	 remove from the bar; expel from the practice of law by official action
disbarment	to deprive of the status of barrister; expel from the Bar
disbelief	n. lack of belief; failure to believe
disbelieve	refuse to believe
disburden	To disencumber.
disburse	 v. pay out (money)
disbursement	 n. paying out money
disc	flat thin round plate, eg a coin
discard	v. throw (sth) out or away
discern	v. see clearly (with the senses or the mind), esp with an effort
discerned	[ discern: ] vt. to recognize or perceive clearly
discernible	adj. that can just be discerned
discerning	 adj. showing careful judgement
discernment	n. ability to judge well; insight ;
discharge	unload unload (cargo) from a ship
disciple	 ,
disciplinarian	 n. person who believes in strict discipline
disciplinary	 adj. concerning discipline
discipline	training, esp of the mind and character, aimed at producing self-control, obedience, etc
disciplined	[ discipline: ] training or conditions imposed for the improvement of physical powers, self-control, etc.
disclaim	 v. say that one does not have (sth); renounce
disclose	 v. ~ sth (to sb) allow sth to be seen
disclosure	 n. making sth known
discography	performer, or date of release
discolor	 To stain.
discombobulate	 to confuse or disconcert
discombobulated	to throw into confusion
discomfit	v. confuse or embarrass (sb)
discomfited	[ discomfit: ] to make uneasy, confused, or embarrassed
discomfiture	 anxious embarrassment ; a defeat in battle
discomfort	lack of comfort; slight pain
discommode	 v. cause (sb) inconvenience
discompose	 v. make (sb) feel uneasy or uncomfortable
discomposure	 n.
disconcert	 v. cause to feel confused, upset or embarrassed
disconcerted	 adj.
disconfirmation	[ disconfirm: ] (of a fact or argument) to suggest that a hypothesis is wrong or ill-formulated
disconnect	 v. ~ A detach sth (from sth); undo a connection
disconnected	 adj. lacking in order; incoherent
disconsolate	 adj. unhappy, esp at the loss of sb/sth; refusing to be comforted
discontent	 n. ~ lack of satisfaction
discontented	 adj. dissatisifed
discontinuance	 Interruption or intermission.
discontinuity	lack of rational connection or cohesion
discontinuous	adj. not continuous; intermittent
discord	disagreement; quarrelling
discordant	not in agreement; conflicting
discount	amount of money taken off the cost of sth
discountenance	 v. disapprove of (sb); discourage ;
discourage	~ sb take away sb's confidence or hope of doing sth
discouraging	 adj. a discouraging result, reply
discourse	lengthy and serious treatment of a subject in speech or writing
discourteous	 adj. bad-mannered; impolite
discourtesy	n. impoliteness; rude act or comment
discover	find or learn about
discovery	discovering or being discovered
discredit	damage the good reputation of
discredited	[ discredit: ] to damage the reputation of
discreet	 adj. careful or showing good judgement in what one says or does; not too obvious
discrepancy	n. ~ difference; failure to agree
discrepant	 Opposite.
discrete	 adj. separate; distinct
discretion	quality of being discreet; good judgement
discretionary	adj. used, adopted, etc when considered necessary
discriminate	~ ~ A from B see or make a difference (between two things)
discriminating	showing good judgement and perception
discrimination	good judgement and perception
discriminatory	 adj. discriminating against sb/sth
discursive	 adj. wandering from one point to another
discuss	v. ~ sth talk or write about sth
discussion	discussing sth
disdain	n. feeling that sb/sth is not good enough to deserve one's respect; contempt
disdainful	 adj. ~ showing disdain
disease	n. illness of the body, of the mind or of plants, caused by infection or internal disorder
diseased	 adj. suffering from a disease
disembark	v. ~ (from sth) (of people) leave a ship or an aircraft
disembodied	separated from the body
disembody	To free (the soul or spirit) from the body
disenchant	 v. cause to lose his good opinion of sb/sth; disillusion
disencumber	v. ~ sb/sth (fml ) free sb/sth from (a burden, an obstruction, etc)
disenfranchise	 v. = disfranchise
disenfranchised	[ disenfranchise: ] to deprive (a person) of the right to vote or other rights of citizenship
disengage	~ sth/sb (fml ) free or disconnect sth/sb from sth/sb that holds it/him firmly
disengaged	 adj. (of a person) free from social or professional obligations
disentangle	make straight and free of knots
disentangled	 [ disentangle: ] to release or become free from entanglement or confusion
disfavor	 Disregard.
disfavored	 [ disfavour: ] disapproval or dislike
disfigure	v. spoil the appearance of
disfranchise	 v. take away the right to vote for a parliamentary representative from
disgorge	~ sth throw out (food, etc) from the stomach or throat; vomit sth
disgrace	state in which others think that one has behaved badly and no longer deserves respect
disgruntle	adjective
disgruntled	adj. ~ ~ (with sb) resentful because sth has happened to displease one
disguise	~ sb/sth ~ sb/sth (as sb/sth) make sb/sth look or sound different from normal; give sb/sth a false appearance
disgust	n. ~ (for/with sb) strong dislike for sth/sb that one feels is not right or good
disgusting	 adj. causing disgust
dish	container for holding or serving food (usu shallow and flat-bottomed)
dishabille	 in a state of undress
dishearten	 v. cause to lose hope or confidence
dishevel	 to throw into disorder or disarray
disheveled	 [ dishevel: ] di'shevelment nou
dishonest	not honest
dishonesty	 n.
dishonor	 [ dishonour: ] to treat with disrespect
dishonour	n. loss of honour or respect
disillusion	v. destroy the pleasant but mistaken beliefs or ideals of
disillusioned	adj. ~ disappointed in sb/sth that one had admired or believed in
disillusioning	 [ disillusion: ] vt. to destroy the ideals, illusions, or false ideas
disillusionment	n. state ofbeing disillusioned
disinclination	 n. ~ (fml ) unwillingness; reluctance
disincline	 n.
disinclined	adj. ~ unwilling; reluctant
disinfect	v. clean by destroying germs that cause disease
disinfectant	 n. substance that disinfects
disinfection	 n.
disinformation	 n. deliberately false information, esp given out by governments or intelligence services
disingenuous	 adj. insincere, esp in pretending that one knows less about sth than one really does
disingenuousness n.
	disingenuousness n.
disinherit	 v. prevent from inheriting one's property (by making a new will naming another person as heir)
disintegrate	 v. (cause sth to) break into small parts or pieces
disintegrating	 [ disintegrate: ] to break or be broken into fragments or constituent parts; shatter
disintegration	 n.
disinter	 v. (fml ) dig up (sth buried)
disinterest	freedom from bias or involvement
disinterested	adj. not influenced by personal feelings or interests; unbiased
disinterestedness n.
	disinterestedness n.
disjoin	to disconnect or become disconnected; separate
disjointed	 adj. in which it is difficult to understand how the ideas, events, etc follow each other and develop
disjunction	the act of disconnecting or the state of being disconnected; separation
disjunctive	adj. (of a conjunction) showing opposition or contrast between two ideas (eg either... or) , either... or
disk	= disc
dislike	v. not like (sb/sth)
dislocate	put out of its proper position in a joint
dislocation	a displacement of a part (especially a bone) from its normal position (as in the shoulder or the vertebral column)
dislodge	 v. ~ sb/sth move or force sb/sth from a previously fixed position
dislodged	to remove from or leave a lodging place, hiding place, or previously fixed position
disloyal	 adj. ~ not loyal; unfaithful
disloyalty	 n.
dismal	causing or showing sadness; gloomy; miserable
dismantle	take to pieces
dismay	 n. feeling of shock and discouragement
dismember	cut or tear off the limbs of
dismiss	~ sb remove sb (esp an employee) from a position
dismissal	n. action of dismissing
dismissive	 adj. ~ dismissing in a rude, brief and casual way
dismount	~ get off (a motor cycle, bicycle, horse, etc)
disobedience	 n. failure or refusal to obey
disobedient	adj. not obedient
disoblige	v. refuse to help or co-operate with (sb)
disorder	confused or untidy state; lack of order
disordered	 [ disorder: ] a lack of order; disarray; confusion
disorderly	untidy
disorganize	to disrupt or destroy the arrangement, system, or unity of
disorganized	 [ disorganize: ] to disrupt or destroy the arrangement, system, or unity of
disorient	[ disorientate: ] to cause (someone) to lose his bearings
disorientate	cause to lose all sense of direction
disorientation	 n.
disoriented	[ disorientate: ] to cause (someone) to lose his bearings
disown	 v. refuse to be connected with (sb/sth), esp because one is shocked by some action
disparage	v. suggest, esp unfairly, that is of little value or importance
disparagement	n. disparaging adj
disparagingly	adv: speak disparagingly of sb/sb's efforts
disparate	adj. so different in kind or degree that they cannot be compared
disparity	n. difference or inequality
dispassionate	adj. not influenced by emotion; impartial
dispatch	~ sb/sth send sb/sth off to a destination or for a special purpose
dispel	 v. drive (sth) away; cause to vanish
dispensable	adj. not necessary or essential
dispensation	action of dispensing or distributing
dispense	~ sth give sth out; distribute sth
dispensed	[ dispense: ] vt. to give out or distribute in portions
dispersal	n. action or process of dispersing
disperse	 v. go in different directions; scatter; break up
dispersed	[ disperse: ] to scatter; distribute over a wide area
dispersion	 n. dispersal, esp of light
dispirit	 v. discourage (sb); depress
dispirited	 adj.
dispiritedness	 [ dispirit: ] to lower the spirit or enthusiasm of; make downhearted or depressed; discourage
displace	move from the usual or correct place
displaced	[ displace: ] to move from the usual or correct location
displacement	displacing or being displaced
display	put sth on show
displease	v. make feel upset or angry; annoy
displeased	 adj. ~ (with sb/sth)
displeasure	n. displeased feeling; dissatisfaction
disport	v. ~ oneself amuse oneself energetically
disposable	made to be thrown away after use
disposal	action of getting rid of sth
dispose	v. place(sb/sth) in a suitable way; arrange
disposed	~ wanting or prepared to do sth
disposition	person's natural qualities of mind and character
dispossess	 v. ~ sb take away property, land, a house, etc from sb
dispossessed	 [ dispossess: ] to take away possession of something, esp. property; expel
disproof	 n. disproving
disproportion	n. ~ (instance of) being out of proportion
disproportionate adj. relatively too large or small, etc; out of proportion
	disproportionate adj. relatively too large or small, etc; out of proportion
disprove	 v. show that iswrong or false
disputable	 adj. that may be questioned or argued about
disputant	n. person who disputes
disputation	(instance of) disputing; controversy ;
disputatious	 adj. fond of arguing; inclined to argue ;
dispute	argument; debate
disqualify	 v. ~ sb (from sth/doing sth) prevent sb from doing sth, usu because he has broken a rule or is not able enough
disquiet	 n. anxiety
disquieted	 [ disquiet: ] a feeling or condition of anxiety or uneasiness
disquietude	a feeling or state of anxiety or uneasines
disquisition	 n. ~ long elaborate spoken or written report or account
disregard	v. pay no attention to treat (sth) as of no importance; ignore
disrepair	n. bad condition caused by lack of repairs
disreputable	 adj. having a bad reputation
disrepute	n. state of having a bad reputation
disrespect	 n. ~ lack of respect; rudeness
disrespectful	adj. ~ showing disrespect
disrobe	v. (fml or joc ) undress
disrupt	v. cause disorder in
disrupted	[ disrupt: ] vt. to throw into turmoil or disorder
disruptive	 adj. causing disruption
dissatisfaction	n. ~ ~ (at doing sth) lack of satisfaction
dissatisfied	 adj. ~ ~ (at doing sth) not satisfied; discontented
dissatisfy	 To displease.
dissect	cut up in order to study its structure
dissection	 n. dissecting or being dissected
dissemblance	 [ dissemble: ] to conceal (one's real motives, emotions, etc.) by pretence
dissemble	v. hide or disguise (one's true thoughts and feelings); dissimulate
dissembler	 n. person who dissembles
dissembling	[ dissemble: ] to conceal (one's real motives, emotions, etc.) by pretence
disseminate	v. spread widely
dissension	 n. angry disagreement
dissent	n. holding opinions which differ from common or officially held ones
dissenter	n. person who dissents
dissentient	One who disagrees.
dissenting	 adj.
dissentious	Contentious.
dissertation	 n. ~ long essay on a particular subject, esp one written for a doctorate or similar degree; thesis
disservice	 n. ~ harmful or unhelpful action
dissever	 To divide.
dissident	n. person who strongly disagrees with or opposes official views and policies
dissimilar	 adj. ~ not the same; unlike
dissimulate	v. hide or disguise (one's thoughts and feelings); dissemble
dissipate	scatter or vanish
dissipated	 adj. given to foolish and harmful pleasures
dissipation	dissipating or being dissipated
dissociate	 v. ~ sb/sth from sth separate in one's thoughts or feelings
dissociation	 n.
dissolute	adj. immoral; dissipated
dissolution	n. ~ breaking up (of sth); dissolving
dissolve	(of a liquid) make (a solid) become liquid
dissolved	[ dissolve: ] to go or cause to go into solution
dissonance	discord
dissonant	adj. not harmonious; discordant ;
dissuade	 v. ~ sb (try to) stop sb by advice or persuasion
dissuasion	 advice against
distaff	stick holding wool, flax, etc for spinning by hand
distal	 adj.situated away from the point of attachment or origin ora central point especially of the body
distance	space between two points or places
distant	far away in space or time
distaste	 n. ~ dislike; aversion
distasteful	adj. ~ unpleasant; disagreeable
distemper	n. (old method of painting with) colouring matter mixed with water and brushed on walls, etc
distend	v. (cause sth to) swell by means of pressure from inside
distensible	Capable of being stretched out or expanded in every direction.
distension	 n. swelling or being swollen
distention	 the act of distending or the state of being distended especially unduly or abnormally
distil	~ sth (from sth) turn (a liquid) to vapour by heating, then collect the drops of liquid that condense from the vapour when cooled
distill	undergo distillation; of liquids
distillate	the product of distillation
distillation	distilling
distiller	n. person or company that distils
distinct	easily heard, seen, felt or understood; definite
distinction	~ difference or contrast between one person or thing and another
distinctive	adj. ~ that distinguishes sth by making it different from others
distinctly	 adv. in a distinct manner; clearly
distinctness	 n.
distinguish	~ A and B; ~ A from B recognize the difference between (people or things)
distinguishable	adj. ~ (from sb/sth)
distinguished	dignified in appearance or manner
distort	pull or twist out of its usual shape
distorting	to twist or pull out of shape; make bent or misshapen; contort; deform
distortion	 n. distorting or being distorted
distract	 v. ~ sb stop sb concentrating on sth
distracted	 adj. ~ unable to concentrate properly, esp because of one's strong feelings
distrain	 v. ~ (law ) seize a person's property or belongings to force him to pay what he owes (esp rent)
distrait	 adj. absent-minded; not paying attention ;
distraught	 adj. very troubled in mind with grief or worry
distress	(cause of) great pain, sorrow, suffering, etc
distressing	adj. causing distress
distressingly	adv.
distribute	~ sth separate sth into parts and give a share to each person or thing
distribution	giving or being given to each of several people, etc
district	part of a country or town having a particular quality
distrust	 n. lack of trust; suspicion
disturb	move from a settled or usual position or state
disturbance	disturbing or being disturbed
disturbed	adj. over-reacting to stress
disturbing	 [ disturb: ] to intrude on; interrupt
disturbingly	 [ disturb: ] to intrude on; interrupt
disunion	separating or being separated
disused	adj. no longer used
disyllabic	 adj. consisting of two syllables
disyllable	 n. disyllabic word or metrical foot
ditch	narrow channel dug at the edge of a field, road, etc, esp to hold or carry off water
dither	 v. ~ hesitate about what to do; be unable to decide
ditty	n. short simple song
diurnal	of the daytime; not nocturnal
diva	 operatic singer; prima donna
divagate	 turn aside esp. from the main subject of attention or course of argument in writing or speaking
dive	~ (from/off sth) (into sth); ~ (off/in) go head first into water
diver	n. person who dives, esp one who works under water using a diving-suit
diverge	~ (of lines, roads, etc) separate and go in different directions, becoming further apart
divergence	 getting farther apart from a point
divergent	adj. divergent paths, opinions
diverse	adj. of different kinds; varied
diversification	n.
diversify	give variety to (sth); vary
diversion	action of turning sth aside or changing its direction
diversity	n. state of being varied; variety
divert	~ sb/sth (to sth) turn sb/sth from one course to another
diverted	 [ divert: ] to turn (a person or thing) aside from a course; deflect
divest	~ sb of sth take off (sb's clothes)
divestiture	the act of divesting
divide	~ (up) (into sth) (cause sth to) split or break into parts; separate
dividend	share of profits paid to share-holders in a company, or to winners in a football pool
divination	 n. foretelling the future by supernatural means
divine	of, from or like God or a god
divinity	quality of being divine1
divisible	adj. ~(mathematics ) that can be divided, usu with no remainder
division	dividing or being divided
divisional	 adj. of a division
divisive	 adj. causing disagreement or disunity among people
divisor	n. number by which another number is divided
divorce	~ (instance of the) legal ending of a marriage
divulge	v. ~ sth make known (sth secret)
dizziness	n.
dizzy	(of a person) feeling as if everything is spinning around; unable to balance; confused
dizzying	 [ dizzy: ] affected with a whirling or reeling sensation; giddy
do	 aux v (used in front of a full v to form negative sentences and questions )
docile	 adj. easy to control
dock	part of a port, etc where ships go for loading, unloading or repair, esp one fitted with gates to control the water level
docket	document or label listing goods delivered, jobs done, contents of a package, etc ,
doctor	person who has been trained in medical science
doctoral	 adj. of or relating to a doctorate
doctrinaire	adj. rigidly applying a theory with no concern for practical problems
doctrine	 n. set of beliefs held by a church, political party, group of scientists, etc
document	 n. paper, form, book, etc giving information about sth, evidence or proof of sth
documentary	consisting of documents
documentation	documenting or being documented
documented	 [ document: ] a piece of paper, booklet, etc., providing information, esp. of an official or legal nature
dodder	 v. move or act in a shaky unsteady way, because of old age or weakness
dodderer	person who dodders
doddering	adjs weak and uncertain in movement
doddle	 n. task or activity that is easily performed
dodge	move quickly and suddenly to one side in order to avoid
doe	n. female deer, reindeer, rabbit or hare
doff	 v. take off (one's hat)
dog	common domestic animal kept by human beings for work, hunting, etc or as a pet
dogged	 adj. determined; not giving up easily
doggerel	 n. verse that produces a clumsy and ridiculous effect
doggo	adv. lie doggo
dogma	n. belief or set of beliefs put forward by some authority, esp a Church, to be accepted as a matter of faith
dogmatic	of or based on dogma
dogmatically	 adv: state sth dogmatically
dogmatism	n. (quality of) being dogmatic
dogmatist	n. dogmatic person
dogmatize	To make positive assertions without supporting them by argument or evidence.
doldrums	the doldrums parts of the ocean near the equator where there is little or no wind
doleful	adj. sad; mournful
dolesome	 Melancholy.
doll	model of a baby or an adult, usu for a child to play with
dollar	unit of money in the US, Canada, Australia, etc
dolor	Lamentation.
dolorous	 adj. sorrowful
dolphin	n. mammal that looks like a large fish and lives in the sea
dolt	 n. stupid person
doltish	adj. stupid
domain	lands owned or ruled by a nobleman, government, etc
dome	rounded roof with a circular base
domestic	of the home, household or family
domesticate	make used to or fond of housework and home life
domestication	n.
domesticity	n. home or family life
domicile	 n. a person's place of residence, esp as officially established for purposes of taxation, etc ,
dominance	Ascendancy.
dominant	~ most important or prominent; dominating
dominate	have control of or a very strong influence on (people, events, etc)
domination	 supremacy or preeminence over another
domineer	 v. ~ (derog ) try to make sb do exactly what one wants by ordering him about, regardless of what he wants to do
don	teacher at a university, esp at an Oxford or a Cambridge college
donate	 v. ~ sth give (money, goods, etc), esp to a charity; contribute sth
donation	 n. thing donated
donator	One who makes a donation or present.
done	 pp of do
donee	A person to whom a donation is made.
donkey	animal of the horse family, with short legs and long ears
donor	person who gives or donates sth
doodle	 v. make meaningless drawings, scribbles etc, while one is or should be thinking about sth else
doom	death or ruin; any terrible and inevitable fate
doomed	 [ doom: ] death or a terrible fate
door	movable barrier that closes the entrance to a building, room, cupboard, car, etc
doorknob	 n. round knob turned to open a door
doorway	n. opening, filled by a door, into a building, room, car, etc
dopey	(infml ) dazed or sleepy, as if drugged
dorm	 n. dormitory
dormancy	 [ dormant: ] quiet and inactive, as during sleep
dormant	adj. temporarily inactive
dormer	 n. upright window built in a sloping roof
dormitory	sleeping-room with a number of beds, esp in a school or some other institution
dorsal	 adj. of or on the back of an animal or a plant
dose	amount of medicine to be taken at one time
dossier	,
dot	small round mark
dotage	 n. in one's dotage confused in one's mind because of old age
dote	~ on sb/sth show (too) much fondness for sb/sth
doting	 adj. very or excessively loving and devoted
double	twice as much or as many
double-cross	 v. cheat or betray (sb) after getting him to trust one . n
doublet	short close-fitting jacket worn by men, with or without sleeves
doubly	to twice the extent or amount
doubt	~ ~ (as to) whether... (feeling of) uncertainty or disbelief
doubtful	~ (of a person) feeling doubt; unsure
doubtfulness	 [ doubtful: ] unlikely; improbable
doubtless	adv. almost certainly; very probably
doughty	adj. brave and strong
dour	 adj. stern; severe; gloomy-looking; joyless
douse	v. ~ sb/sth put sb/sth into (water); throw (water) over sb/sth ;
dove	type of bird with short legs, a small head and a thick body, that makes a cooing sound and is often used as a symbol of peace
dowdy	(of clothes, etc) dull; unfashionable; drab ,
down	from a higher to a lower level
downcast	looking downwards
downfall	fall from a position of prosperity or power
downgrade	v. ~ sb/sth (to sth) reduce sb/sth to a lower grade, rank or level of importance
downhill	towards the bottom of a hill; in a downward direction ;
downplay	 debase; lower
downpour	 n. heavy, usu sudden, fall of rain
downstairs	down the stairs
down-to-earth	adj. practical; sensible
downtrodden	adj. kept down and badly treated; oppressed
downward	 adj. moving, leading or pointing to what is lower or less important
downwards	adv. towards what is lower
dowry	n. property or money brought by a bride to her husband
dowse	= douse
doyen	n. senior member of a group, profession, etc
doze	sleep lightly
dozen	set of twelve
drab	 adj. dull; uninteresting
drabness	 n.
drachma	n. unit of money in Greece
draconian	adj. very harsh
draft	rough preliminary written version of sth
drag	thing made to be dragged, eg a drag-net, or heavy harrow
dragnet	A net to be drawn along the bottom of the water.
dragon	imaginary animal with wings and claws, able to breathe out fire .
dragoon	n. heavily-armed cavalryman
drain	pipe or channel that carries away sewage or other unwanted liquid
drainage	draining or being drained
drake	male duck
drama	play for the theatre, radio or TV
dramatic	of drama
dramatically	 adv: Her attitude changed dramatically
dramatist	n. writer of plays
dramatize	To relate or represent in a dramatic or theatrical manner.
drank	pt of drink3
drape	~ sth round/over sth hang (cloth, curtains, a cloak, etc) loosely on sth
drastic	having a strong or violent effect
draught	current of air in a room or some other enclosed space
draughty	 dj (-ier, -iest) with draughts of air blowing through
draw	(usu sing ) ~ (for sth) act of picking at random tickets in a lottery, matches in a tournament, etc
drawback	 n. ~ disadvantage; problem
drawbridge	 n. bridge that can be pulled up to stop people crossing
drawer	box-like container, with one or more handles but no lid, that slides in and out of a piece of furniture, etc
drawing	art of representing objects by lines, with a pencil, chalk, etc
drawl	v. speak or say in a slow lazy manner, with drawn-out vowels
drawn	adj. looking very tired or worried
dread	great fear; terror
dreadful	causing great fear or suffering; shocking
dreadfully	in a serious or shocking manner
dream	sequence of scenes and feelings occurring in the mind during sleep
dreamlike	adj. like a dream
dreary	that makes one sad or depressed; dismal; gloomy
dredge	 n. machine for scooping or sucking mud, etc from the bottom of a river, canal, etc
dredger	n. container with holes in the lid, used for dredging food ,
dreg	 a small quantity
dregs	solid particles that sink to the bottom of certain liquids, esp wine and beer
drench	 to wet thoroughly (as by soaking or immersing in liquid)
drenched	 [ drench: ] to make completely wet; soak
dress	garment for a woman or girl, consisting of a bodice and skirt in one piece; frock
drew	 pt of draw2
dribble	allow saliva to run from the mouth
drift	drifting movement
drill	n. tool or machine with a detachable pointed end for making holes
drily	= dryly (dry1)
drink	liquid for drinking
drip	fall in drops
drive	(be able to) operate (a vehicle or locomotive) and direct its course
drivel	 n. silly nonsense
driven	 pp of drive1
driver	person who drives a vehicle
drives	 [ drive: ] to push, propel, or be pushed or propelled
drizzle	v. rain in many fine drops
drizzly	adj. a cold drizzly day
droll	adj. amusing in an odd or a quaint way
drollery	 n. quaint humour
drone	male honey-bee
drool	let saliva flow from the mouth; dribble ;
droop	v. bend or hang downwards through tiredness or weakness
drop	small rounded or pear-shaped mass of liquid
droplet	n. small drop
dross	n. scum of waste matter on melted metals
drought	n. continuous dry weather, esp when there is not enough water for people's needs
drove	pt of drive1
drown	die in water (or other liquid) because one is unable to breathe
drowsily	 adv: murmur sth drowsily
drowsiness	 feeling sleepy/half asleep
drowsy	half asleep; feeling sleepy
drudge	 n. person who has to do long hard boring jobs
drudgery	 n. hard boring work
drug	substance used as or in a medicine
drugstore	n. chemist's shop which also sells many kinds of goods and often serves light meals
drum	instrument consisting of a hollow round frame with plastic or skin stretched tightly across the open end(s) which is struck with sticks or the hands
drummer	person who plays a drum or drums
drunk	excited or confused by alcoholic drink
drunken	drunk
drunkenness	n.
dry	not (or no longer) wet, damp or sticky; without moisture
dryness	[ dry: ] lacking moisture; not damp or wet
dual	 adj. having two parts or aspects; double
duality	n.
dubiety	feeling of doubt
dubious	~ not certain and slightly suspicious about sth; doubtful
duck	any of various types of common water-bird, domestic and wild
duckling	young duck
duct	tube or channel carrying liquid, gas, electric or telephone wires, etc; tube through which air passes
ductile	that can be pressed, beaten or pulled into fine strands without being heated ,
ductility	the malleability of something that can be drawing into wires or hammered into thin sheets
due	~ (to sb) owed as a debt or an obligation
duel	formal fight between two men, using swords or pistols, esp to settle a point of honour
duenna	 n. elderly woman acting as governess and chaperon to the daughters of a family
duet	 n. piece of music for two players or singers
dug	pt, pp of dig1
duke	(title of a) nobleman of the highest rank
dukedom	position or rank of a duke
dulcet	 adj. sounding sweet; pleasing to the ear
dull	not bright or clear
dullard	n. person who thinks slowly; stupid person ;
dullness	 n.
dumb	unable to speak
dumbfound	v. make speechless with surprise; astonish
dummy	model of the human figure, used for displaying or fitting clothes, etc
dump	put in a place and leave as rubbish
dun	adj. n dull greyish-brown colour
dunce	n. person, esp a pupil, who is stupid or slow to learn
dune	 n. mound of loose dry sand formed by the wind
dungeon	n. underground prison cell, esp in a castle
dupe	 v. ~ sb deceive or trick sb (into doing sth)
duplex	 adj. having two parts
duplicate	exactly like something else; identical
duplicated	 [ duplicate: ] copied exactly from an original
duplication	n. duplicating or being duplicated
duplicitous	[ duplicity: ] du'plicitous adjectiv
duplicity	n. deliberate deception
durability	 n.
durable	adj. lasting for a long time
durance	restraint; imprisonment
duration	time during which sth lasts or continues
duress	 n. threats or force used to make sb do sth; compulsion
during	throughout
dusk	 n. time after twilight and before night
dust	fine dry powder consisting of particles of earth, dirt, etc
dustman	n. (Brit) (US garbage man) man employed by a local authority to empty dustbins and remove rubbish
Dutch	of the Netherlands (Holland), its people or their language
duteous	adj. = dutiful
dutiable	 adj. on which customs or other duties must be paid
dutiful	adj. showing respect and obedience; fulfilling all one's obligations
dutifully	adv: He dutifully followed his commander's instructions. * to serve one's country dutifully
duty	moral or legal obligation
dwarf	person, animal or plant that is much smaller than the normal size
dwell	~ in, at, etc . (arch or rhet ) live as an inhabitant of or reside at (a place)
dweller	n. person or animal living in the place specified
dwelling	 n. place of residence; house, flat, etc
dwindle	v. ~ (to nothing) become gradually less or smaller
dye	v. colour (sth), esp by dipping in a liquid
dying	=> die
dynamic	of power or forces that produce movement
dynamite	powerful explosive used in mining, etc
dynamo	device for converting steam-power, water-power, etc into electricity; generator .
dynasty	series ofrulers all belonging to the same family
dyne	 The force which, applied to a mass of one gram for 1 second, would give it a velocity of 1 cm/s.
dysentery	n. inflammation of the bowels, causing severe diarrhoea, usu with a discharge of mucus and blood
dysfunctional	(of an organ or part) not functioning normally
dyslexia	 n. (also word-blindness) abnormal difficulty in reading and spelling, caused by a brain condition
dyslexic	 n, adj suffering from dyslexia
dyspepsia	n. indigestion
dyspeptic	adj. n person suffering from dyspepsia or the irritability that it causes
each	 indef det (of two or more) every (person, thing, group, etc) considered individually
eager	~ full of interest or desire; keen
eagle	large strong bird of prey of the falcon family with very good eyesight
eagle eye	very good eyesight
eaglet	 n. young eagle
ear	organ of hearing; its outer part
earache	n. pain in the ear-drum
early	near to the beginning of a period of time
earmark	~ sb/sth (for sth/sb) assign or set aside sb/sth (to or for a special purpose)
earn	get (money) by working
earnest	adj. serious; determined; not light-hearted
earnestness	n.
earnings	 n. money earned
earplug	device of pliable material for insertion into the outer opening of the ear (as to keep out water or deaden sound)
earring	jewelry to ornament the ear; usually clipped to the earlobe or fastened through a hole in the lobe
earshot	n. (be) out of/within `earshot where one cannot/can be heard
earsplitting	 distressingly loud or shrill
earth	n. this world; the planet on which we live
earthenware	n. pottery made of baked clay
earthiness	 n.
earthly	of this world; not spiritual
earthquake	 n. sudden violent movement of the earth's surface
earthy	of or like earth or soil
ease	freedom from work, discomfort, pain or anxiety
easel	n. wooden frame for holding a blackboard or a picture
easily	without difficulty
east	the east point of the horizon where the sun rises; one of the four main points of the compass
Easter	 n. annual Christian festival, that occurs on a Sunday in March or April, and celebrates the resurrection of Christ after the crucifixion; period about this time , 34
eastern	adj. of, from or living in the east part of the world or of a specified region
easternmost	adj. situated farthest east
eastward	 adj. towards the east
easy	not difficult; done or obtained without great effort
easygoing	adj. relaxed in manner; placid and tolerant
eat	v. ~ (up)/~ sth (up) take (solid food or soup) into the mouth and swallow it for nourishment
eatable	adj. fit to be eaten; good to eat
eaves	n. overhanging lower edges of a roof
eavesdrop	v. ~ (on sb/sth) listen secretly to a private conversation
eavesdropper	 n.
ebb	(of the tide) go out; recede ;
ebullience	 n. state of being ebullient; exuberance
ebullient	adj. full of energy and excitement; exuberant ;
eccentric	unusual; peculiar; not conventional or normal
eccentricity	quality of being eccentric; strangeness of behaviour, etc
ecclesiastic	 n. clergyman
ecclesiastical	 adj. of clergymen
ecdysis	periodic shedding of the cuticle in arthropods or the outer skin in reptiles
echelon	level of authority or responsibility; rank in an organization
echo	reflection and repetition of a sound, eg from a wall or inside an enclosed space
eclat	brilliance; conspicuous success
eclectic	 adj. (of people, beliefs, etc) not restricted to one source of ideas, etc, but choosing from or using a wide range
eclecticism	selection of elements from various sets of opinions
eclipse	blocking of the light of the sun or of the moon (when the earth's shadow falls on it)
ecliptic	the great circle on the celestial sphere representing the apparent annual path of the sun relative to the stars.
eclogue	a short descriptive poem of rural or pastoral life
ecological	 adj. of ecology
ecologist	n. student of or expert in ecology
ecology	n. the relation of plants and living creatures to each other and to their surroundings
economic	of economics(1), or of an economy
economical	 adj. careful in the spending of money, time, etc and in the use of resources; not wasteful
economically	 adv: His scheme is not economically sound
economics	science or principles of the production, distribution and consumption of goods esp with reference to cost
economize	To spend sparingly.
economy	avoidance of waste (of money, strength, time, resources, etc)
ecosystem	n. ecological unit consisting of a group of plants and living creatures interacting with each other and with their surroundings
ecstasy	n. great joy or happiness
ecstatic	 adj. causing or showing ecstasy
ecumenical	of or representing the whole Christian world or universal Church
eddy	 n. circular or spiral movement of water, air, fog, dust, etc
edge	sharp cutting part of a blade, knife, sword, or some other tool or weapon
edible	 adj. fit to be eaten
edict	n. order or proclamation issued by an authority
edification	n. improvement of mind or character
edifice	n. large or imposing building
edify	v. (fml or joc ) improve the mind or character of (sb)
edifying	 adj. morally or intellectually improving
edit	prepare for publication, eg in a book, newspaper, or magazine
edition	form in which a book is published
editor	 n. person who edits or who is in charge of part of a newspaper
editorial	adj. of an editor
editorialize	 to express an opinion in or as in an editorialise
educate	v. ~ sb train the mind and character of sb; teach sb; provide sb with an education
education	training and instruction (esp of children and young people in schools, colleges, etc) designed to give knowledge and develop skills
educational	adj. of, about or providing education
educe	draw forth; elicit
eerie	adj. causing a feeling of mystery and fear
efface	rub or wipe (sth) out; cause to fade
effect	~ change produced by an action or cause; result or outcome
effective	having an effect; producing the intended result
effectively	in an effective way
effectual	adj. (not used of people) producing the intended result
effectuate	 to cause to happen; effect; accomplish
effeminacy	 Womanishness.
effeminate	 adj. (of a man or his behaviour) like a woman; unmanly
effervesce	release bubbles of gas; fizz
effervescence	(n.) liveliness; spirit; enthusiasm; bubbliness
effete	 adj. weak, having lost power
efficacious	adj. (not of people) producing the desired result; effective
efficacy	 n. state or quality of being efficacious
efficiency	 n. state or quality of being efficient
efficient	able to work well; capable
efficiently	adv: get industry running more efficiently
effigy	carved figure or model representing a person or animal
efflorescence	n. action or time of bursting into flower
effluent	liquid waste matter, sewage, etc, eg from a factory into a river
effluvia	 n. a by-product especially in the form of waste
effluvium	noxious smell
effort	use of strength and energy (to do sth)
effortless	 adj. needing no or little effort
effortlessness	 n.
effrontery	 n. boldness or rudeness without shame; impertinence
effulgence	 the quality of being bright and sending out rays of light
effulgent	radiant splendor:BRILLIANCE
effuse	 To pour forth.
effusion	pouring out, esp of liquid
effusive	 adj. showing (too much) feeling; too emotional
egalitarian	n, adj showing or holding a belief in equal rights, benefits and opportunities for everybody
egalitarianism	 n.
egg	in female mammals the cell from which the young is formed; ovum
ego	individual's perception or experience of himself, esp in relation to other people or to the outside world; part of the mind that can think, feel and act
egocentric	 adj. considering only oneself; self-centred ;
egoism	state of mind in which one is always thinking about oneself and what is best for oneself
egoist	 n. person who believes in or shows egoism
egoistic	adjs of an egoist
egotism	n. practice of talking too often or too much about oneself; selfishness ;
egotist	n. person who practises or shows egotism; selfish person ;
egotistical	[ egotist: ] a conceited boastful person
egregious	adj. (usu of sb/sth bad ) exceptional; outstanding
egress	(right of) going out
Egyptian	 of, relating to, or characteristic of Egypt, its inhabitants, or their dialect of Arabic
eight	pron, det 8; one more than seven 8.
eighteen	 pron, det 18; one more than seventeen 18.
eighteenth	 pron, det 18th; next after seventeenth 18. n one of eighteen equal parts of sth . For the uses of eighteen and eighteenth see the examples at five and fifth. eighteeneighteenthfivefifth
eighth	n. one of eight equal parts of sth
eightieth	pron, det 80th; next after seventy-ninth 80. n one of eighty equal parts of sth
eighty	 pron, det 80; one more than seventy-nine 80.
either	 indef det, indef pron one or the other of two . (det)
ejaculate	eject or rapidly discharge fluid, esp semen, from the body
ejaculation	sudden discharge or ejection of fluid, esp semen, from the body
eject	~ sb/sth (fml ) force sb/sth out; expel sb/sth ;
elaborate	adj. very detailed and complicated; carefully prepared and finished
elaboration	addition of details; intricacy
elapse	 v. (of time) pass
elastic	returning to its normal or previous size or shape after being pulled or pressed
elasticity	 n. quality of being elastic
elate	stimulate
elated	 adj. ~ in high spirits; very happy or proud
elation	n. high spirits; joy
elbow	joint where the arm bends
elder	(of people; esp two closely related members of a family) older; senior
elderly	adj. (of people) rather old; past middle age
eldest	 adj. , n first-born; oldest
elect	~ sb choose sb by vote
election	 n. choosing or selection by vote (of candidates for a position, esp a political office)
electorate	 n. all the qualified electors considered as a group
electric	producing electricity
electrical	 adj. of or concerned with electricity
electrically	 adv: an electrically powered drill
electrician	n. person whosejob is to install, operate, repair, etc electrical equipment
electricity	form of energy occurring in certain particles and hence in larger bodies, since they contain these
electrify	charge (sth) with electricity
electrocardiogram n. (medical ) record of sb's heartbeat traced by an electrocardiograph, used in the diagnosis of heart disease
	electrocardiogram n. (medical ) record of sb's heartbeat traced by an electrocardiograph, used in the diagnosis of heart disease
electrocute	v. kill by means of an electric current
electrode	n. either of two solid conductors by which an electric current enters or leaves a battery, etc; terminal
electroencephalogram n. pattern traced by an electroencephalograph
	electroencephalogram n. pattern traced by an electroencephalograph
electroencephalograph n. instrument for detecting and recording the electric current produced by the activity of the brain
	electroencephalograph n. instrument for detecting and recording the electric current produced by the activity of the brain
electrolysis	separation of a substance into its chemical parts by an electric current
electrolytically [ electrolytic: ] (Physics) a	of, concerned with, or produced by electrolysis or electrodeposition
electromagnetic	adj. having both electrical and magnetic properties
electron	 n. minute particle of matter with a negative electric charge, found in all atoms
electronic	produced or operated by a flow of electrons
electronically	 adv: process data electronically, ie using a computer . ,electronic `mail sending text, diagrams, etc by means of computers linked to a telecommunication network
electronics	branch of science and technology that deals with the behaviour of electrons
electrotype	A metallic copy of any surface, as a coin.
eleemosynary	 of, relating to, or supported by charity
elegance	 n. elegantly
elegant	adj. tasteful and stylish in appearance or manner
elegiac	suitable for elegies
elegy	n. poem or song expressing sorrow, esp for the dead; lament ;
element	~ necessary or characteristic part of sth
elemental	powerful; uncontrolled; like the forces of nature
elementary	of or in the beginning stages (of a course of study)
elephant	largest four-footed animal now living, with two curved ivory tusks, thick skin, and a long trunk
elephantine	adj. large and awkward like an elephant
elevate	lift sb/sth up; raise sb/sth to a higher place or rank ;
elevation	elevating or being elevated
elevator	= lift
eleven	 pron, det 11; one more than ten 11.
eleventh	n one of eleven equal parts of sth
elf	n. type of small fairy; mischievous little creature
elfish	 adj. mischievous
elicit	 v. ~ sth (fml ) draw (facts, a response, etc) from sb, sometimes with difficulty
elide	v. leave out the sound of when pronouncing it
eligibility	n. state of being eligible
eligible	 adj. ~ suitable or fit to be chosen; having the right or proper qualifications
eliminate	~ sb/sth remove (esp sb/sth that is not wanted or needed)
elimination	n.
elite	n. social group considered to be the best or most important because of their power, talent, wealth, etc
elitism	n. (belief in a) system, leadership, etc that aims at developing an elite
elitist	n. person who believes in elitism . adj of the elite or elitism
elixir	imaginary substance with which medieval scientists hoped to change metals into gold or make people live for ever
Elizabethan	adj. of the time of Queen Elizabeth I of England 15581603
ellipse	n. regular oval
ellipsis	 n. (grammar) (instance of) leaving out a word or words from (the grammatical structure of) a sentence when the meaning can be understood without it/them
elliptic	adjs shaped like an ellipse
elliptical	 adj. containing ellipsis
elm	tall deciduous tree with broad rough-edged leaves
elocution	n. art or style of speaking clearly and effectively, esp in public
elocutionary	 adj. of elocution
elocutionist	 n. person who teaches or is an expert in elocution
elongate	 v. make longer
elongation	 n. making or becoming longer
elope	v. ~ run away with a lover, esp to get married
eloquence	n. expressive language, esp to impress or persuade an audience
eloquent	 adj. having or showing eloquence
else	in addition to or apart from (that already mentioned)
elsewhere	adv. in, at or to some other place
elucidate	v. make (sth) clear; explain
elucidation	n. (fml )
elude	escape (sb/sth), esp by a trick or cleverness; avoid
elusion	Evasion.
elusive	adj. tending to escape or disappear; difficult to capture
elves	pl of elf
elysian	adj. the Elysian fields
Elysium	n. (in Greek myths) home of the blessed after death
emaciate	 to cause to lose f unaffectlesh so as to become very thin
emaciated	adj. made thin and weak
emaciation	 n.
emanate	v. ~ from sth/sb come or flow from sth/sb
emancipate	 v. ~ sb set sb free, esp from political, legal or social restrictions
emancipated	[ emancipate: ] to free from restriction or restraint, esp. social or legal restraint
emancipation	 n. action of emancipating
emasculate	remove the sexual organs of (a male animal); castrate ;
embankment	 n. wall or ridge of earth, stone, etc made to keep water back or to carry a railway or road over low ground
embargo	n. (on sth) official order that forbids sth, esp trade, the movement of ships, etc
embark	~ (cause sb/sth to) go or be taken on board a ship or an aircraft
embarkation	n. action or process of embarking
embarrass	v. cause (sb) to feel self-conscious, awkward or ashamed
embarrassed	to feel or cause to feel confusion or self-consciousness; disconcert; fluster
embarrassment	embarrassing or being embarrassed
embassy	ambassador and his staff
embed	to enclose closely in or as if in a matrix
embedded	to fix or become fixed firmly and deeply in a surrounding solid mass
embellish	make sth beautiful by adding ornaments, etc
embellishment	n. embellishing or being embellished
embezzle	 v. use in a wrong way to benefit oneself
embezzlement	 n. embezzling
embezzler	n. person who embezzles
embitter	 v. fill with bitter feelings
embitterment	 n. (fml )
emblazon	 v. decorate with heraldic or other devices
emblem	 n. object that represents sth; symbol
emblematic	 adj. ~ (fml ) serving as an emblem; symbolic ;
embodiment	 n. person or thing that embodies sth or is embodied
embody	express or give visible form to (ideas, feelings, etc)
embolden	 to instill with boldness or courage
embolism	 n. blockage of an artery or a vein caused by a clot of blood, an air-bubble, etc
emboss	 raise in a relief
embrace	close encircling with the arms and pressure to the bosom especially as a sign of affection:HUG
embroider	~ A ~ B (with A) decorate (cloth) with needlework
embroidery	decoration with needlework
embroil	throw into confusion; involve in strife; entangle
embryo	young animal or plant in the early stages of its development before birth (or before coming out of its egg or seed)
embryonic	adj. in an early stage of development
emend	v. remove errors from
emendation	 n. action of emending
emerald	n. bright green precious stone
emerge	come out or up (from water, etc)
emergence	n. action of emerging
emergency	sudden serious event or situation requiring immediate action
emergent	 adj. in the process of emerging
emerging	 [ emerge: ] to come up to the surface of or rise from water or other liquid
emeritus	 adj. (of a university teacher, esp a professor) retired, but keeping his title as an honour
emetic	 n, adj causing vomiting
emigrant	 n. person who emigrates
emigrate	 v. ~ (to...) leave one's own country to go and live in another
emigration	 n.
eminence	state of being famous or distinguished
eminent	famous and distinguished
emissary	 n. person sent to deliver a message or to conduct negotiations
emission	sending out or giving off (of light, heat, fumes, matter, fluid from the body, etc)
emit	 v. give or send (sth) out; discharge
emollient	n, adj that soothes and softens the skin
emolument	n. (fml or rhet ) profit made from being employed; fee or salary
emote	stir up, excite
emotion	strong feeling of any kind
emotional	of the emotions
emotionally	adv: emotionally disturbed
empathetic	 [ empathic: ] adj. of or relating to empathy
empathy	ability to imagine and share another person's feelings, experience, etc
emperor	n. ruler of an empire
emphasis	 n. force or stress given to a word or words when spoken, to make the meaning clear or to show importance
emphasize	To articulate or enunciate with special impressiveness upon a word, or a group of words.
emphatic	having, showing or using emphasis
emphatically	 adv.
empire	group of countries or states under a single ruler or ruling power
empirical	adj. based on observation or experiment, not on theory
empirically	adv.
empiricism	 n. use of empirical methods
empiricist	 n. person who works in an empirical way
employ	~ sb ~ sb (as sth) give work to sb, usu for payment
employee	 n. person who works for sb or for a company in return for wages
employer	 n. person or company that employs others
employment	act of employing
emporium	 n. (joc or fml ) centre of trade; market ;
empower	v. give lawful power or authority (to sb) to act
emptiness	n.
empty	having nothing inside
empyreal	 adj. celestial; fiery
empyrean	 the apparent surface of the imaginary sphere on which celestial bodies appear to be projected
emulate	v. ~ sb (fml ) try to do as well as or better than sb
emulation	n. action or state of emulating
emulsify	 v. become an emulsion or make an emulsion of (sth)
emulsion	creamy liquid in which particles of oil or fat are evenly distributed
enable	make able to do sth by giving him the necessary authority or means
enact	perform (a part, play, etc) on, or as if on, the stage of a theatre
enacted	[ enact: ] to make into an act or statute
enactment	enacting
enamel	glass-like substance used for coating metal, pottery, etc for decoration or as protection
enamor	 To inspire with ardent love.
enamored	 (adj.) filled with love and desire
enamoured	adj. ~ of/with sth fond of or delighted by sth
encamp	 v. settle in camp
encapsulate	enclose sth (as if) in a capsule
encapsulation	[ encapsulater: ] to enclose or be enclosed in or as if in a capsule
encase	 to place or enclose in or as if in a case
encephalitis	 n. inflammation of the brain
enchant	v. fill with great delight
enchanting	 adj. delightful
enchantment	being enchanted
encipher	 convert ordinary language into code
encircle	 v. form a circle round; surround
enclave	n. small territory of one state surrounded by that of another
enclose	(also inclose) put a wall, fence, etc round sth
enclosed	 [ enclose: ] to close; hem in; surround
enclosure	enclosing of land
encomiast	en"comi'astic, en"comi'astical adjective
encomiastic	[ encomiast: ] en"comi'astic, en"comi'astical adjective
encomium	 n. (fml ) very high praise in speech or writing
encompass	include or comprise sth
encore	 interj Again! Repeat!!
encounter	meet or find oneself faced by (sth/sb unpleasant, dangerous, difficult, etc)
encourage	~ sb give support, confidence or hope to sb
encouragement	n. ~ (to do sth) action of encouraging
encroach	 v. ~ (fml ) go beyond what is right or natural or desirable; intrude
encroachment	 n. ~ (fml ) action of encroaching
encumber	 to impede or hamper the function or activity of:HINDER
encumbrance	n. person or thing that encumbers
encyclical	 n. letter written by the Pope for wide circulation
encyclopedia	 n. book or set of books giving information about every branch of knowledge, or about one particular subject, with articles in alphabetical order
encyclopedic	 adj. dealing with or having knowledge of a wide variety of subjects; comprehensive
end	farthest or last part or point (of the length of sth); extreme limit
endanger	 v. cause danger to (sb/sth); put in danger
endear	 v. ~ sb/oneself to sb make sb/oneself loved or liked by sb
endearing	adj. causing or resulting in affection
endearment	 n. word or expression of affection
endeavor	 [ endeavour: ] to try (to do something)
endeavour	n. attempt or effort
endemic	n, adj that is regularly found in a particular country or area, or among a particular group of people
ending	 n. end, esp of a story, film, play or word
endive	type of plant with curly leaves used as salad
endless	without end
endocrine	of or denoting endocrine glands or their secretions
endocrinology	the branch of medical science concerned with the endocrine glands and their secretions
endorse	write one's name on the back of
endorsement	n. act of endorsing
endow	~ sb/sth give money, property, etc to provide a regular income for (eg a school, a college)
endowment	action of endowing
endue	v. ~ sb with sth provide or supply sb with a good quality, ability etc
endurable	adj. that can be endured; bearable
endurance	n. state or power of enduring
endure	suffer or undergo patiently
enduring	 adj. continuing in existence; lasting
enemy	n. person who strongly dislikes or wants to injure or attack sb/sth
energetic	full of or done with energy
energize	 invigorate; make forceful and active
energy	ability to act or work with strength and eagerness
enervate	 v. cause to lose strength or energy
enervated	[ enervate: ] vt. to deprive of strength or vitality; weaken physically or mentally; debilitate
enfeeble	 v. make weak or feeble
enforce	~ sth force people to obey (a law, etc); make sth effective
enforceable	adj. that can be enforced
enforcement	n. enforcing or being enforced
enfranchise	give (sb) political rights, esp the right to vote at parliamentary elections
engage	~ sb (fml ) arrange to employ sb; hire sb
engaged	busy; occupied
engagement	agreement to marry
engaging	 adj. likely to attract or occupy the attention; charming
engender	 v. be the cause of (a situation or condition)
engine	machine with moving parts that converts energy such as heat, electricity, etc into motion
engineer	person who designs, builds or maintains engines, machines, bridges, railways, mines, etc
engineering	n. practical application of scientific knowledge in the design, construction and control of machines, public services such as roads, bridges, etc, electrical apparatus, chemicals, etc
England	the largest division of Great Britain, bordering on Scotland and Wales: unified in the mid-tenth century and conquered by the Normans in 1066; united with Wales in 1536 and Scotland in 1707
English	the language of England, used in Britain, most countries in the British Commonwealth, the USA and some other countries
Englishman	person born in England or one whose parents are English or one who has become an English citizen
engrave	~ B on A/~ A cut or carve (words, designs, etc) on (a hard surface)
engraved	 [ engrave: ] to inscribe (a design, writing, etc.) onto (a block, plate, or other surface used for printing) by carving, etching with acid, or other process
engraving	art of cutting or carving designs on metal, stone, etc
engross	occupy all the time or attention of (sb)
engrossed	[ engross: ] to occupy one's attention completely; absorb
engrossing	 taken up all the time or attention/writing in large or formal
engulf	 v. (of the sea, flames, etc) surround (sth) or cause (sth) to disappear; envelop
enhance	v. increase make (sb/sth) look better
enhancement	n. action of enhancing
enigma	 n. question, person, thing, circumstance, etc that is difficult to understand; mystery
enigmatic	adj. difficult to understand; mysterious
enjoin	 v. ~ sth (fml or law ) impose (an action or prohibition) on sb; order
enjoy	get pleasure from
enjoyable	adj. giving joy; pleasant
enjoyment	pleasure; satisfaction
enkindle	 v. cause (flames, passion, etc) to flare up
enlarge	(cause sth to) become larger
enlargement	action of enlarging or being enlarged
enlighten	v. ~ sb give more knowledge or information to sb; free sb from false beliefs or ignorance
enlightened	adj. free from prejudice, ignorance, superstition, etc
enlightening	 [ enlighten: ] to give information or understanding to; instruct; edify
enlightenment	act of enlightening or state of being enlightened
enlist	enter or cause (sb) to enter the armed forces
enlistment	enlisting or being enlisted
enliven	v. make more lively or cheerful
enmesh	 v. ~ sb/sth (usu fig ) entangle (as) in a net
enmeshed	 [ enmesh: ] to catch or involve in or as if in a net or snare; entangle
enmity	 n. condition or feeling of being an enemy; hostility
ennoble	make (sb) a member of the nobility
ennui	n. weariness of mind caused by lack of anything interesting or exciting to do; feeling of boredom
enormity	great wickedness
enormous	 adj. very large; immense
enormously	 adv. to a very great extent
enough	 indef det ~ sth (for sb/sth); ~ sth (for sb) to do sth as many or as much of sth as necessary; sufficient
enrage	 v. make very angry
enraged	[ enrage: ] to provoke to fury; put into a rage; anger
enrapture	v. fill (sb) with great delight or joy
enrich	make sb/sth rich or richer
enrol	v. ~ (sb) (in/as sth) become or make (sb) a member (of sth)
enroll	 [ enrol: ] to record or note in a roll or list
ensconce	 v. ~ oneself/sb in sth establish or settle oneself in a safe, secret, comfortable, etc place
ensemble	thing viewed as a whole; general effect
enshrine	 v. ~ sth (in sth) place or keep sth (in, or as if in, a shrine or holy place)
ensign	(esp naval) flag or banner
enslave	v. make a slave of (sb)
ensnare	~ sb/sth (in sth) (often fig ) catch sb/sth in, or as if in, a trap or snare
ensue	v. ~ happen afterwards or as a result; follow
ensure	make sure; guarantee
entail	make necessary; involve
entangle	cause sb/sth/oneself to become twisted, tangled or caught (in sth)
entanglement	entangling or being entangled
enter	come or go in or into (sth)
enterprise	project or undertaking, esp one that is difficult or needs courage
enterprising	 adj. having or showing enterprise(2)
entertain	~ sb receive sb as a guest; provide food and drink for sb, esp in one's home
entertaining	 adj. amusing and pleasing
entertainment	entertaining or being entertained
enthral	v. capture the whole attention of (sb) as if by magic; please greatly; captivate
enthrall	 capture; make slave
enthralling	adj. an enthralling performance
enthrone	 v. place (a king, queen or bishop) on a throne, esp with ceremony; exalt
enthuse	v. ~ show great admiration or interest for
enthusiasm	strong feeling of admiration or interest; great eagerness
enthusiast	 n. ~ person filled with enthusiasm
enthusiastic	 adj. ~ full of enthusiasm
enthusiastically adv: She greeted him enthusiastically with a kiss
	enthusiastically adv: She greeted him enthusiastically with a kiss
entice	 v. ~ sb (from sth); ~ sb (into sth/doing sth) try to tempt or persuade sb, usu by offering sth pleasant or a reward
enticement	enticing or being enticed
enticements	[ entice: ] to attract or draw towards oneself by exciting hope or desire; tempt; allure
enticing	 adj. attractive or tempting
entire	 adj. with no part left out; whole; complete
entirely	 adv. completely
entirety	 n. state of being entire; completeness
entitle	give a title to
entitled	 [ entitle: ] to give (a person) the right to do or have something; qualify; allow
entity	thing with distinct and real existence
entomologist	 n. student of or expert in entomology
entomology	 n. scientific study of insects
entourage	n. all those who accompany and attend an important person
entrails	 n. internal organs of a person or animal, esp the intestines
entrance	~ opening, gate, door, passage, etc by which one enters sth
entrap	 to catch in or as if in a trap
entrapment	 the luring, by a police officer, of a person into committing a crime so that he may be prosecuted for i
entreat	v. ~ sb (fml ) ask sb (for sth) earnestly and feelingly; beg
entreaty	 n. earnest request or requesting
entree	~ (into sth) right or privilege of admission or entry
entrench	surround or protect with a trench or trenches
entrenched	 [ entrench: ] vt. to construct (a defensive position) by digging trenches around
entrenchment	system of trenches made for defence
entrepreneur	person who starts or organizes a commercial enterprise, esp one involving financial risk
entrepreneurial	adj. entrepreneurial flair, skills, etc
entrust	~ A to B/ ~ B with A trust sb to take charge of sth/sb
entry	~ act of coming or going in
entwine	v. ~ sth make sth by twisting one thing around another
enumerate	v. name one by one; count
enumeration	n.
enunciate	say or pronounce clearly
enunciation	n.
envelop	v. ~ sth/sb wrap sth/sb up; cover or surround sth/sb completely (in sth) ;
envelope	 n. wrapper or covering, esp one made of paper for a letter
enviable	 adj. causing envy; desirable enough to cause envy
enviably	 adv: enviably rich
envious	adj. ~ full of envy; feeling, showing or expressing envy
environ	enclose; surround
environment	conditions, circumstances, etc affecting people's lives
environmental	of or caused by a person's environment
environmentalist an adherent of environmentalist
	environmentalist an adherent of environmentalist
environmentally	adv: Building a new factory there would be environmentally disastrous
environs	 n. districts surrounding a town, etc
envisage	 v. picture in the mind as a future possibility; imagine
envision	 to picture to oneself
envoy	messenger or representative, esp one sent to deal with a foreign government
envy	~ ~ (at/of sth) feeling of discontent caused by sb else's good fortune or success, esp when one wishes this for oneself
enzyme	organic chemical substance that is formed in living cells and assists chemical changes (eg in digestion) without being changed itself
Eocene	 of, denoting, or formed in the second epoch of the Tertiary period, which lasted for 20000000 years, during which hooved mammals appeared
eohippus	-puses)
eon	n. an indefinitely long period of time
epaulet	an ornamental cloth pad worn on the shoulder
epaulette	n. shoulder ornament on a naval or military officer's uniform
ephemeral	adj. living, lasting, etc for a very short time
epic	long poem about the deeds of one or more great heroes, or a nation's past history
epicure	n. person who takes a special interest in and gets great pleasure from food and drink
epicurean	n, adj fond of pleasure and luxury
epicycle	 A circle that rolls upon the external or internal circumference of another circle.
epicycloid	 A curve traced by a point on the circumference of a circle which rolls upon another circle.
epidemic	 n, adj spreading quickly among many people in the same place for a time
epidermis	n. outer layer of the skin
epigram	n. short poem or saying expressing an idea in a clever and amusing way
epigrammatic	 adj. expressing things, or expressed, in a short and witty way
epilepsy	 n. disease of the nervous system that causes a person to fall unconscious
epileptic	adj. of epilepsy
epilogue	 n. part or section added at the end of a book, play, film, programme, etc, as a comment on the main action
epiphany	 n. Christian festival held on 6 January, in memory of the coming of the Magi to the baby Jesus at Bethlehem , 16
episode	event occurring as part of a long series of events as in a novel, one's life, etc
episodic	 adj. occurring irregularly; sporadic
epistemologist	 [ epistemology: ] e"piste'mologist nou
epistemology	 the study or a theory of the nature and grounds of knowledge especially with reference to its limits and validity
epistle	letter
epitaph	n. words written or said about a dead person, esp words inscribed on a tombstone
epithet	n. adjective or descriptive phrase that refers to the character or most important quality of sb/sth eg Alfred the Great, Attila the Hun ,
epitome	thing that shows on a small scale all the characteristics of sth much larger
epitomize	to serve as the typical or ideal example of
epizootic	Prevailing among animals.
epoch	n. period of time in history, life, the history of the earth, etc, esp one marked by notable events or characteristics
epode	A species of lyric poems.
equable	free from extremes of heat or cold; moderate
equal	the same in size, amount, value, number, degree, status, etc
equality	 n. state of being equal
equalize	 To render uniform.
equally	in an equal manner or to an equal degree
equanimity	 n. calmness of mind or temper
equate	 v. ~ sth consider sth as equal or equivalent (to sth else)
equation	statement that two expressions (connected by the sign =) are equal
equator	n. imaginary line around the earth at an equal distance from the North and South Poles
equestrian	 adj. of horse-riding
equilibrium	state of being balanced
equine	 adj. of or like a horse or horses
equinox	n. either of the two times in the year (around
equip	v. ~ sb/sth (with sth) supply sb/sth (with what is needed, for a particular purpose)
equipment	things needed for a particular purpose
equipoise	balanced state, esp of the mind; equilibrium ;
equitable	adj. fair and just; reasonable
equitation	 riding a horse as a sport
equity	fairness; right judgement
equivalence	state or quality of being equivalent
equivalent	 adj. ~ equal in value, amount, meaning, importance, etc
equivocal	having a double or doubtful meaning; ambiguous
equivocate	 v. speak in an ambiguous way to hide the truth or mislead people
equivocation	use of equivocal statements to mislead people
era	period in history starting from a particular time or event
eradicate	v. destroy completely; put an end to (sth)
eradication	(n.) the act of annihilating, destroying, or erasing
eradicator	 n. person or thing that eradicates, esp a chemical substance that removes ink marks
erase	~ sth rub or scrape sth out; remove all traces of sth
erasure	action of erasing
erect	standing on end; upright; vertical
erode	v. destroy or wear (sth) away gradually
eroded	 [ erode: ] to grind or wear down or away or become ground or worn down or away
erosion	n. process of eroding or being eroded
erotic	 adj. of or arousing sexual desire
err	make mistakes; be wrong ;
errand	short journey to take a message, get or deliver goods, etc
errant	doing wrong; misbehaving
erratic	adj. irregular or uneven in movement, quality or behaviour; unreliable
erratically	adv: Being out of practice the team played very erratically
erroneous	adj. incorrect; mistaken
error	thing done wrongly; mistake
ersatz	 adj. imitation or substitute, usu inferior to the original
erstwhile	former; one-time
erudite	adj. having or showing great learning; scholarly
erudition	n. learning
erupt	suddenly throw out lava, etc
eruption	outbreak of a volcano
escalate	 v. increase or develop by successive stages; become or make (sth) more intense
escalation	 n. rapidly increas
escalator	n. moving staircase carrying people up or down between floors or different levels
escapade	 n. daring, mischievous or adventurous act; prank
escape	~ get free; get away (from imprisonment or control)
escapism	 n. (habit of) trying to forget unpleasant realities by means of entertainment, fantasy, etc
escapist	 n. person whose behaviour is characterized by escapism
eschew	 v. keep away from (sth); abstain from; avoid
escort	person or group of people, ships, vehicles, etc accompanying sb/sth to give protection or as an honour; person, etc accompanying valuable goods to guard them
escutcheon	shield displaying a coat of arms
esophagus	= oesophagus
esoteric	 adj. likely to be understood by only those with a special knowledge or interest; mysterious; obscure
especial	 adj. exceptional; outstanding; special
especially	 adv. in particular; specially
espionage	n. practice of spying or using spies to obtain secret information
espousal	 n. ~ of sth espousing of (a cause, etc)
espouse	v. give one's support to (a cause, theory, etc)
esprit	 n. lively wit
espy	 v. (dated or joc ) catch sight of (sb/sth)
esquire	Esq) polite title added after a man's surname (instead of Mr before it), esp in addressing letters , Mr
essay	n. piece of writing, usu short and in prose, on any one subject
essence	that which makes a thing what it is; most important or indispensable quality of sth
essential	~ necessary; indispensable; most important
essentially	adv. in his/its true nature; basically
establish	set up on a firm or permanent basis
established	adj. made official for a country
establishment	action of creating or setting up
estate	area of land, esp in the country, with one owner
esteem	have a high opinion of (sb/sth); respect greatly
esteemed	 [ esteem: ] to have great respect or high regard for
estimable	adj. worthy of great respect
estimate	judgement or calculation of the approximate size, cost, value, etc of sth
estrange	 to arouse especially mutual enmity or indifference in where there had formerly been love, affection, or friendliness:ALIENATE
estranged	to separate and live apart from (one's spouse)
estrangement	state of being estranged
estuary	n. wide river mouth into which the tide flows
etch	 v. ~ sth (on/onto sth) use a needle and acid to make (a picture, etc) on a metal plate from which copies may be printed
etching	art of making etched prints
eternal	without beginning or end; lasting or existing for ever
eternally	throughout all time; for ever ;
ethereal	of unearthly delicacy and lightness; seeming too spiritual or fairy-like for this world
ethic	system of moral principles; rules of conduct
ethical	of morals or moral questions
ethics	 the discipline dealing with what is good and bad and with moral duty and obligation
ethnic	of a national, racial or tribal group that has a common cultural tradition
ethnographer	 n. student of or expert in ethnography
ethnography	n. scientific description of the different human races
ethnological	 adj. of ethnology
ethnologist	n. student of or expert in ethnology
ethnology	n. science of the different human races, their characteristics, relations to one another, etc
ethologist	adjective
ethology	adjective
ethos	n. characteristic spirit, moral values, ideas or beliefs of a group, community or culture
etiquette	n. formal rules of correct and polite behaviour in society or among members of a profession
etymological	 adj. of etymology
etymology	study of the origin and history of words and their meanings
eucalyptus	(also euca`lyptus tree) any of several types of tall evergreen trees (including the Australian gum-tree), from which oil, timber and gum are obtained
eugenic	pertaining to the improvement of race
eugenics	 n. science of the production of healthy intelligent children with the aim of improving the human genetic stock1
eulogistic	 adj. full of high praise
eulogize	 to speak or write in high praise of:EXTOL
eulogy	 n. (speech or piece of writing containing) high praise of a person or thing
euphemism	n. use of pleasant, mild or indirect words or phrases in place of more accurate or direct ones
euphemistic	adj. consisting of or containing euphemisms
euphonious	 adj. of a pleasing sound
euphony	n. pleasantness of sound, esp in words
euphoria	 n. intense feeling of happiness and pleasant excitement
euphoric	 adj. euphoric shouts of victory
eureka	 interj I have found it! (a cry of triumph at making a discovery )
Europe	 the second smallest continent, forming the W extension of Eurasia
European	 n, adj of Europe
eurythmic	[ eurhythmic: ] having a pleasing and harmonious rhythm, order, or structure
euthanasia	 n. gentle and painless death for a person suffering from a painful incurable disease, extreme old age, etc
evacuate	~ sb (to...) remove sb from a place of danger to a safer place, esp in time of war
evacuation	act of evacuating or state of being evacuated
evade	get or keep out of the way of
evaluate	 v. find out or form an idea of the amount or value of (sb/sth); assess
evaluation	 n.
evaluative	 of, denoting, or based on an act of evaluating
evanesce	 To vanish gradually.
evanescent	 adj. quickly fading; soon disappearing from memory
evangelical	of or according to the teachings of the Christian Gospel, or the Christian religion
Evangelicalism	 n. evangelicalbeliefs and teachings
evangelist	any one of the four writers of the Gospels in the Bible
evaporate	change into vapour and disappear
evaporation	n.
evasion	keeping out of the way of sb; avoidance
evasive	having the aim or intention of avoiding capture, of not giving a direct answer, etc
eve	n. the first woman on earth, created by God
even	level; smooth; flat
evenhanded	 without partiality
evening	part of the day between about 6p.m. and bedtime
evenly	 adv. in an even manner
event	thing that happens, esp sth important; incident
eventual	 adj. happening at last as a result; ultimate
eventually	 adv. in the end; at last
ever	at any time
everlasting	going on or lasting for ever
everlastingly	adv. in an everlasting(3) manner
evert	To turn inside out.
every	(used with sing ns to refer to groups of three or more which are seen as wholes , ) each individual
everybody	indef pron every person; all people
everyday	 adj. used or happening daily; familiar
everyone	every person; everybody
everything	all things
everywhere	 indef adv in or to every place
evict	to force out:EXPEL
eviction	evicting or being evicted
evidence	~ (esp law ) information that gives a reason for believing sth or proves sth
evident	adj. ~ (that...) obvious (to the eye or mind); clear
evidential	 adj. of, based on, or providing evidence
evidently	adv. obviously; it appears that
evil	morally bad; wicked
evilly	 adv. in an evil manner
evince	 v. show clearly that one has (a feeling, quality, etc); exhibit
eviscerate	 v. remove the internal organs of (a body); disembowel ;
evocative	adj. ~ that evokes or is able to evoke memories, feelings, etc (of sth)
evoke	bring to mind (a feeling, memory, etc); summon up
evolution	(theory of the) gradual development of the characteristics of plants and animals over many generations, esp the development of more complicated forms from earlier, simpler forms
evolutionary	 adj. of or resulting from (the theory of) evolution; developing
evolve	(cause to) develop naturally and (usu) gradually
ewe	n. female sheep
ewer	 n. large wide-mouthed jug for holding water, esp as formerly used with a basin in a bedroom without a piped water supply ,
ex	 n. (pl ~es, ~'s) former wife or husband; former boyfriend or girlfriend
exacerbate	 v. make (pain, disease, a situation) worse; aggravate
exact	correct in every detail; precise
exacting	 adj. making great demands; requiring great effort
exaction	action of exacting money, etc
exactitude	 n. over-correctness
exactly	quite; just
exaggerate	 v. make seem larger, better, worse, etc than it really is; stretch (a description) beyond the truth
exaggerated	adj. made to seem larger, better, worse, etc than it really is
exaggeration	action of exaggerating
exalt	make (sb) higher in rank or greater in power
exaltation	 n. state of spiritual delight; elation ;
exam	 n. examination(2)
examination	action of examining; being examined
examine	~ sth/sb look at carefully in order to learn about or from; inspect closely
examiner	person who tests knowledge or ability
example	fact, event, etc that illustrates or represents a general rule
exasperate	 v. irritate or annoy greatly
exasperation	 n. state of being exasperated
excavate	make (a hole or channel) by digging; remove (soil, etc) by digging
excavation	activity of excavating
exceed	 v. be greater or more numerous than (esp a quantity)
exceedingly	adv. extremely; to an unusual degree
excel	~ in/at sth be exceptionally good at sth
excellence	~ quality of being excellent; great merit
excellency	 n. title given to ambassadors, governors, their husbands or wives, and some other officers and officials
excellent	very good; of very high quality
except	 prep ~ ~ (that...) not including (sb/sth); but not
exception	leaving out or excluding; person or thing that is not included
exceptionable	adj. that sb can object to
exceptional	adj. very unusual; outstanding
exceptionally	adv. unusually; outstandingly
excerpt	n. ~ passage, extract, from a book, film, piece of music, etc
excess	an ~ of sth more than the reasonable, expected or moderate degree or amount of sth
excesses	 [ excess: ] the state or act of going beyond normal, sufficient, or permitted limits
excessive	adj. greater than what is normal or necessary; extreme
excessively	adv.
exchange	giving one thing or person in return for another
exchangeable	 adj. that can be exchanged
exchequer	the Exchequer government department in charge of public money
excise	 n. government tax on certain goods manufactured, sold or used within a country
excision	action of excising
excitability	 n. quality of being excitable
excitable	adj. easily excited
excitation	 Intensified emotion or action.
excite	cause strong feelings of eagerness, happiness, nervousness, etc in
excited	adj. feeling or showing excitement
excitement	state of strong emotion or feeling, esp one caused by sth pleasant
exciting	 adj. causing great interest or enthusiasm
exclaim	v. cry out suddenly and loudly from pain, anger, surprise, etc
exclamation	n. sound(s) or word(s), expressing sudden surprise, pain, etc
exclude	~ sb/sth prevent sb from entering somewhere, taking part in sth, etc; keep sb out
exclusion	~ (from sth) action of excluding; being excluded
exclusive	(of a group, society, etc) not readily admitting new members (esp if they are thought to be socially inferior); select
exclusively	[ exclusive: ] excluding all else; rejecting other considerations, possibilities, events, etc.
excogitate	 come up with
excoriate	to censure scathingly
excoriation	severe criticism
excrescence	n. abnormal (ugly and useless) growth on an animal body or a plant
excrete	v. (of an animal or a plant) pass out (waste matter, sweat, etc) from the system
excretion	n. action of excreting
excruciate	 to subject to intense mental distress
excruciating	 adj. intense; acute
exculpate	v. ~ sb (fml ) free sb from blame; say that sb is not guilty
exculpatory	Acting or tending to exculpate
excursion	n. short journey, esp one made by a group of people together for pleasure
excursive	constituting a digression:characterized by digression
excusable	adj. that may be excused
excuse	 n. ~ (true or invented) reason given to explain or defend one's behaviour; apology
execrable	adj. verybad; terrible
execrate	 to declare to be evil or detestable:DENOUNCE
execration	 An accursed thing.
execute	carry out, perform (what one is asked or told to do)
execution	carrying out or performance of a piece of work, plan, design, duty, etc
executioner	n. public official who carries out a death sentence
executive	concerned with the management and carrying out of plans, decisions, etc
executor	 n. person who is appointed by the maker of a will to carry out the terms of the will
exegesis	 n. (fml ) explanation and interpretation of a written work, esp the Bible ,
exemplar	 A model, pattern, or original to be copied or imitated.
exemplary	serving as an example; suitable for imitation
exemplify	be a typical example of (sth)
exempt	 adj. ~ free from an obligation, duty or payment; not liable
exemption	immunity from an obligation or duty
exercise	use or practice through effort or action
exert	~ sth bring (a quality, skill, pressure, etc) into use; apply sth
exertion	 n. action of applying influence, etc
exhalation	act of exhaling
exhale	breathe (sth) out
exhaust	waste fumes, gases, steam, etc expelled from an engine or a machine
exhaustion	total loss of strength; extreme tiredness
exhaustive	 adj. very thorough; complete
exhaustiveness	 [ exhaustive: ] comprehensive in scope; thorough
exhibit	object or collection of objects displayed for the public, eg in a museum
exhibition	collection of things shown publicly (eg works of art, industrial or commercial goods for advertisement)
exhibitionism	tendency to behave in a way intended to attract attention to oneself
exhibitionist	n. person who is given to exhibitionism
exhibitor	n. person who displays pictures, flowers, etc at a show
exhilarate	 v. make feel very happy or lively
exhilarated	[ exhilarate: ] to make lively and cheerful; gladden; elate
exhilarating	 adj. very exciting; causing happiness
exhilaration	 n.
exhort	 v. ~ sb (fml ) advise sb strongly or earnestly; urge sb
exhortation	action of exhorting
exhumation	exhuming or being exhumed
exhume	 v. take from the ground (for examination)
exigence	 [ exigency: ] the state of being exigent; urgency
exigency	 n. (condition of) urgent need or demand; emergency
exigent	requiring immediate action; urgent
exiguous	 adj. very small (in amount); scanty
exile	being sent away from one's native country or home, esp for political reasons or as a punishment; forced absence
exist	~ be real or actual; have being
existence	state or fact of existing
existential	of or relating to (esp human) existence
exit	action of leaving; departure, esp that of an actor from the stage
exocrine	 of or relating to exocrine glands or their secretions
exodus	~ (to...) (fml or joc ) departure of many people at one time
exogamy	marriage to a person belonging to a tribe or group other than your own as required by custom or law
exonerate	to relieve of a responsibility, obligation, or hardship
exoneration	set smb clear, free (eg. from blame)
exorbitance	n. (fml ). exorbitantly
exorbitant	 adj. (of a price, charge, etc) much too high or great; unreasonable
exorcise	 drive out evil spirits
exorcism	 n. exorcizing
exorcist	 n. person who exorcizes
exorcize	 to expel or attempt to expel (one or more evil spirits) from (a person or place believed to be possessed or haunted), by prayers, adjurations, and religious rites
exotic	introduced from another country; not native
expand	~ (into sth) (cause sth to) become greater in size, number or importance
expanding	[ expand: ] to make or become greater in extent, volume, size, or scope; increase
expanse	n. ~ wide and open area (of land, sea, etc)
expansion	n. action of expanding; state of being expanded
expansive	able or tending to expand
expansiveness	n.
expatiate	v. ~ on/upon sth write or speak at great length or in detail about a subject
expatriate	 n. person living outside his own country
expect	 v. ~ sth (from sb/sth) think or believe that sth will happen or that sb/sth will come
expectancy	 n. state of expecting or hoping
expectant	adj. expecting (esp sth good); hopeful
expectantly	adv.
expectation	~ firm belief that sth will happen; hope of gaining sth/that sth will happen
expectorate	v. send out (phlegm from the throat, blood from the lungs) by coughing; spit
expediency	 that which is advisable or practical
expedient	adj. useful, helpful or advisable for a particular purpose, though not necessarily fair or moral
expedite	 v. help the progress of (work, business, etc); hasten or speed up
expedition	organized journey or voyage with a particular aim
expeditious	adj. done with speed and efficiency
expel	force sb to leave (esp a country, school or club)
expend	spend, use (money, etc) in doing sth
expendable	 adj. that may be consumed, destroyed, etc to achieve a purpose
expenditure	action of spending or using
expense	spending of money etc; cost
expensive	adj. costing a lot
experience	knowledge or skill acquired from seeing and doing things
experienced	adj. having become skilful or knowledgeable from extensive contact or participation or observatio
experiment	 n. test or trial done carefully in order to study what happens and gain new knowledge
experimental	 adj. of, used for, using or based on experiments
experimentally	 adv: We are using the substance experimentally at first
experimentation	n. activity, process or practice of experimenting
expert	 n. ~ person with special knowledge, skill or training in a particular field
expertise	n. expert knowledge or skill, esp in a particular field
expiate	v. accept punishment for (wrong one has done) and do something to show one is sorry; make up for
expiation	n. (fml )
expiration	ending, esp of the period when a contract, etc is in force
expire	come to an end; become no longer in use
explain	~ sth make sth plain or clear; give the meaning of sth
explanation	explaining
explanatory	adj. giving, serving or intended as an explanation
expletive	n. violent (often meaningless) exclamation said in anger, pain, etc; swear-word
explicable	 adj. that can be explained
explicate	v. explain and analyse (esp an idea, a statement or a work of literature) in detail
explicit	(of a statement, etc) clearly and fully expressed
explicitly	 adv: She was explicitly forbidden to attend
explode	burst with a loud noise; blow up
exploit	n. brave or adventurous deed or action
exploitation	 n. exploiting or being exploited
exploration	activity of exploring
explore	travel into or through in order to learn about it
explorer	 n. person who explores
explosion	(loud noise caused by) sudden and violent bursting; exploding
explosive	likely or easily able to explode
exponent	person or thing that explains and supports a theory, belief, cause, etc
exponential	of or indicated by an exponent(3)
exponentially	adv: increase exponentially
export	exporting
expose	uncover or make (sth) visible; display
exposed	adj. not sheltered (from wind, weather, etc)
exposition	explaining or making clear by giving details
expository	 serving to expound or set fourth
expostulate	v. ~ (on/about sth) (fml ) make a protest (to sb); reason or argue (with sb), esp to persuade him not to do sth
expostulation	n. protest; reasoned persuasion, etc
exposure	action of exposing or state of being exposed
expound	v. ~ sth (fml ) explain or make sth clear by giving details
express	going, sent or delivered quickly
expressed	[ express: ] to transform (ideas) into words; utter; verbalize
expressible	[ express: ] to transform (ideas) into words; utter; verbalize
expression	action or process of expressing (express3 1)
expressive	showing one's feelings or thoughts
expressly	clearly; definitely
expropriate	~ sth (from sb) take away (property, etc) for public use without payment to the owner
expulsion	action of expelling or being expelled
expunge	v. ~ sth (fml ) remove or wipe out (words, names, etc) from a list, book, etc
expurgate	v. remove improper or objectionable parts from (a book, etc)
exquisite	extremely beautiful or delicate; finely or skilfully made or done
extant	 adj. still in existence
extemporaneous	 adj. spoken or done without preparation; extempore ;
extempore	adj. adv without previous thought or preparation; impromptu
extemporize	especially :to speak extemporaneously
extend	make longer or larger (in space or time)
extended	 stretched out in time, space, influence, application, etc.
extensible	 Capable of being thrust out.
extension	process or action of extending (extend 1,2,3); state of being extended
extensive	large in area; extending far
extensively	adv: He has travelled extensively in Europe
extensor	 A muscle that causes extension.
extent	length; area; range
extenuate	v. make (wrongdoing) less serious (by providing an excuse)
extenuating	[ extenuate: ] to represent (an offence, a fault, etc.) as being less serious than it appears, as by showing mitigating circumstances
extenuation	n. action of extenuating; being extenuated
exterior	 adj. on or coming from the outside; outer
exterminate	v. destroy completely (a race or group of people or animals); wipe out
external	outside; situated on the outside of sth (esp the body)
externalize	to make external; give outward shape to
extinct	no longer in existence
extinction	action of making extinct; state of being extinct
extinguish	cause (sth) to stop burning; put out
extirpate	v. remove or destroy (sth) completely
extirpation	n.
extol	v. ~sb (as sth) (fml ) praise (sb/sth) highly
extort	 v. ~ sth obtain sth by violence, threats, etc
extortion	action of extorting
extortioner	ns person who extorts
extortionist	 [ extort: ] to secure (money, favours, etc.) by intimidation, violence, or the misuse of influence or authority
extra	adj. more than or beyond what is usual, expected or necessary; additional
extract	take or get sth out, usu with effort or by force
extraction	action of extracting (extract 1a)
extracurricular	taking place outside the normal school timetable
extradite	give up or send back to the country where the crime was (said to be) committed
extradition	surrender of prisoner by one state to another
extrajudicial	Happening out of court.
extramural	for people who are not full-time residential members of a university
extraneous	not belonging to or directly connected with the subject or matter being dealt with
extraordinarily	adv: extraordinarily beautiful, thoughtful, rude
extraordinary	beyond what is ordinary; very unusual; remarkable
extrapolate	(mathematics ) calculate (an unknown quantity) approximately from known values or measurements
extrapolated	to estimate (a value of a function or measurement) beyond the values already known, by the extension of a curve
extrapolation	n. ~ (fml )
extraterrestrial adj. of or from outside the earth and its atmosphere
	extraterrestrial adj. of or from outside the earth and its atmosphere
extraterritorial adj. (of an ambassador, etc) free from the laws of the country in which one lives
	extraterritorial adj. (of an ambassador, etc) free from the laws of the country in which one lives
extravagance	being extravagant
extravagant	using or spending too much; (of actions) showing this tendency
extreme	as far away as possible (esp from the centre or beginning); remote
extremely	adv. to a very high degree
extremes	 [ extreme: ] being of a high or of the highest degree or intensity
extremism	n. holding of such views
extremist	n. person who holds extreme(3) views (esp in politics)
extremity	(fml ) furthest point, end or limit of sth
extricable	 that can be freed
extricate	v. ~ sb/sth (fml ) set sb/sth free; release sb/sth ;
extrinsic	adj. ~ (fml ) (of qualities, values, etc) not belonging to or part of the real nature of a person or thing; coming from outside
extroversion	 n. state of being extroverted
extrovert	person more interested in what is happening around him than in his own thoughts and emotions
extroverted	[ extrovert: ] a person concerned more with external reality than inner feelings
extrude	force or squeeze out sth under pressure
exuberance	 n. state or quality of being exuberant
exuberant	overflowing with happiness and excitement; very lively and cheerful
exude	~ (sth) (from/through sth) (of drops of liquid, etc) come or pass out slowly; ooze out
exult	v. ~ (at/in sth) get great pleasure from sth; rejoice greatly
exultant	 adj. ~ exulting; triumphant
eye	organ of sight
eyebrow	arch of hair above the human eye
eyeless	adj. without eyes; without sight ;
eyelid	upper or lower of two movable folds of skin that close to cover the eyeball
eyesight	 n. power of seeing; ability to see
eyewitness	 n. = witness
fable	short story not based on fact, often with animals as characters, that conveys a moral
fabric	type of cloth, esp one that is woven
fabricate	invent
fabrication	action or result of fabricating
fabulous	incredibly great
facade	front (of a building)
face	front part of the head from the forehead to the chin
facet	any of the many sides of a cut stone or jewel
facetious	adj. intended to be amusing, often inappropriately
facia	= dashboard (dash1)
facial	 adj. of or for the face
facially	 adv. as far as the face is concerned
facile	easily obtained or achieved (and so not highly valued)
facilitate	 v. (of an object, a process, etc but not of a person) make (sth) easy or less difficult
facilities	 [ facility: ] ease of action or performance; freedom from difficulty
facility	ability to learn or do things easily
facsimile	n. exact copy or reproduction of writing, printing, a picture, etc
fact	thing that is known to have happened or to be true or to exist
fact-finding	 n. discovering the truth about sth
faction	n. small united group within a larger one, esp in politics
factional	[ faction: ] a group of people forming a minority within a larger body, esp. a dissentious group
factionalism	 [ faction: ] a group of people forming a minority within a larger body, esp. a dissentious group
factious	of or causedby faction
factitious	 adj. deliberately created or developed; unnatural; artificial
factor	fact, circumstance, etc that helps to produce a result
factory	n. buildingin which goods are manufactured
factotum	 n. person employed to do all kinds of work
factual	adj. based on or containing facts
factually	adv: factually correct
faculty	any of the powers of the body or mind
fad	n. fashion, interest, preference, enthusiasm, etc that is not likely to last
faddish	adj. having peculiar likes and dislikes
faddy	adj. faddish, esp about food
fade	lose colour, freshness or vigour
fading	 a variation in the strength of received radio signals due to variations in the conditions of the transmission mediu
fag	tedious and tiring job
Fahrenheit	 adj. of a temperature scale with the freezing-point of water at 3
fail	~ (in sth) be unsuccessful in (sth)
fail-safe	adj. designed to compensate automatically for a breakdown or failure
failure	lack of success
faint	that cannot be clearly perceived by the senses; indistinct; not intense in colour or sound or smell
fainthearted	 lacking courage or resolution:TIMID
fair	~ (to/on sb) treating each person, side, etc equally and according to the law, rules, etc; impartial
fairly	in a fair manner; honestly
fairness	 [ fair: ] free from discrimination, dishonesty, etc.; just; impartial
fairy	small imaginary being with magical powers
fairyland	home of fairies
faith	~ trust; strong belief; unquestioning confidence
faithful	~ loyal (to sb/sth)
faithfully	in a faithful manner
faithfulness	 n.
fake	 n. object (eg a work of art) that seems genuine but is not
falcon	 n. small bird of prey
fall	 v. come or go down from force of weight, loss of balance, etc; descend or drop
fallacious	 adj. misleading; based on error
fallacy	false or mistaken belief
fallen	 pp of fall1
fallibility	n.
fallible	 adj. liable to make mistakes
fallow	 adj. ploughed but left unplanted to restore its fertility
false	wrong; incorrect
falsehood	untrue statement; lie
falsification	[ falsify: ] vt. to make (a report, evidence, accounts, etc.) false or inaccurate by alteration, esp. in order to deceive
falsify	make false by mutilation or addition; as of a message or story
falter	move, walk or act hesitantly, usu because of weakness, fear or indecision
fame	 n. being known or talked about by many people
famed	adj. ~ (for sth)
familial	 of or relating to the family
familiar	~ with sth having a good knowledge of sth
familiarity	~ with sth good knowledge of sth
familiarization	[ familiarize: ] to make (oneself or someone else) familiar, as with a particular subject
family	group consisting of parents and their children
famine	 n. extreme scarcity of food in a region
famish	 To suffer extremity of hunger or thirst.
famished	 adj. very hungry
famous	~ known to very many people; celebrated
fan	n. object, often shaped like a semicircle, held in the hand and waved to create a current of cool air
fanatic	n. person who is too enthusiastic about sth, esp religion or politics
fanatical	adj. surpassing what is normal or accepted in enthusiasm for or belief in something; excessively or unusually dedicated or devoted
fanaticism	 n. great or obsessive enthusiasm
fancied	imaginary; unreal
fancier	n. person with a special interest in and love for sth
fanciful	using the imagination rather than reason
fancy	power of the mind to imagine
fanfare	n. short ceremonial piece of music, usu played on trumpets
fang	long sharp tooth, esp of dogs and wolves
fantasia	 n. imaginative musical or other composition with no fixed form
fantastic	wild and strange
fantasy	imagination or fancy
far	adj. (dated or fml ) distant
farce	funny play for the theatre based on unlikely situations and events
farcical	 adj. absurd; ridiculous ;
fare	money charged for a journey by bus, ship, taxi, etc
farewell	goodbye
far-fetched	(of a comparison) strained; unnatural
farm	area of land, and the buildings on it, used for growing crops or raising animals
farmer	 n. person who owns or manages a farm
farrago	n. confused collection; mixture
far-reaching	 adj. likely to have a wide influence or many results
farrow	 v. give birth to young pigs
farther	adj. more distant in space, direction or time
farthest	 adj. 1 most distant in space, direction or time
fascia	 a sheet or band of fibrous connective tissue separating or binding together muscles and organs etc
fascinate	attract or interest greatly
fascinating	adj. having great attraction or charm
fascination	fascinating quality; process of fascinating
fashion	manner or way of doing sth
fashionable	following a style that is currently popular
fashionableness	[ fashionable: ] conforming to fashion; in vogue
fashionably	adv. in a fashionable manner
fast	moving or done quickly; rapid
fasten	~ sth (down) secure or fix sth firmly
fastener	 n. device that fastens sth
fastidious	selecting carefully; choosing only what is good ;
fastidiousness	 n.
fastness	 n. quality of being fast2
fat	covered with or having a lot of fat
fatal	causing or ending in death
fatalism	 n. belief that events are decided by fate(1); acceptance of all that happens as inevitable ;
fatalist	 n. person who believes in fateor accepts everything as inevitable
fatalistic	 adj. showing a belief in fate
fatality	death caused by accident or in war, etc
fate	power believed to control all events in a way that cannot be resisted; destiny
fateful	important and decisive
father	male parent
fatherhood	 n. state of being a father
father-in-law	father of one's husband or wife
fathom	 n. measure of the depth of water , 61.8
fathomable	 [ fathom: ] a unit of length equal to six feet (1.829 metres), used to measure depths of water
fathomless	 adj. too deep to measure
fatigue	great tiredness, usu resulting from hard work or exercise
fatiguing	[ fatigue: ] physical or mental exhaustion due to exertion
fatten	 v. ~ sb/sth (up) make sb/sth fat or fatter
fatuity	state of being fatuous
fatuous	adj. stupid and silly; foolish
fatuousness	n.
faucet	tap for a barrel, etc ,
fault	imperfection or flaw
faultily	 adv. in a faulty manner
faultless	adj.
faulty	 adj. having a fault or faults; imperfect
faun	 n. god of the fields and woods, with goat's horns and legs but a human torso ,
fauna	n. all the animals of an area or a period of time
favor	[ favour: ] an approving attitude; good will
favorable	[ favourable: ] advantageous, encouraging, or promising
favoritism	 [ favouritism: ] the practice of giving special treatment to a person or group
favour	liking; goodwill; approval
favourable	giving or showing approval
favourite	person or thing liked more than others
fawn	deer less than one year old
fawning	[ fawn: ] a young deer of either sex aged under one year
fax	v. ~ sth send the copy of (a document, an illustration, etc) by an electronic system using telephone lines
faze	 v. fluster (sb)
fealty	 n. (oath of) loyalty owed by a feudal tenant, etc to his lord
fear	emotion caused by the nearness or possibility of danger, pain, evil, etc
fearful	~ ~ (that/lest...) nervous and afraid
fearless	 adj. ~ not afraid (of sth)
fearlessness	 n.
fearsome	 adj. frightening in appearance
feasible	 adj. that can be done; practicable; possible
feast	unusually large or elaborate meal
feat	 n. successful completion of sth needing skill, strength or courage
feather	any of the many light fringed structures that grow from a bird's skin and cover its body .
feathery	light and soft like feathers
feature	one of the named parts of the face (eg nose, mouth, eyes) which together form its appearance
featureless	adj. without distinct features (feature 2); uninteresting ;
febrile	adj. caused by a fever
February	 n. the second month of the year, next after January
feckless	 adj. inefficient; irresponsible ;
fecund	 adj. fertile; productive
fecundity	n.
federal	of or relating to a form of government or a country in which power is divided between one central and several regional government
federate	 v. unite into a federation
fee	(usu pl ) amount paid for professional advice or service, eg to private teachers, doctors, etc
feeble	 adj. weak; faint
feed	~ sb/sth (on sth) give food to (a person or an animal)
feedback	information about a product, etc that a user gives back to its supplier, maker, etc
feel	explore or perceive (sth) by touching or by holding in the hands
feeling	ability to feel
feet	 pl of foot1
feign	v. pretend
feigned	[ feign: ] to put on a show of (a quality or emotion); pretend
feint	n. pretended attack to distract an opponent's attention from the main attack
feisty	(approv ) spirited; energetic; forceful ;
felicitate	 v. ~ sb (fml ) congratulate sb
felicitous	 adj. (esp of words) well-chosen; apt
felicity	great happiness
feline	 adj. n animal of the cat family
fell	 pt of fall1
fellow	companion; comrade
fellowship	friendly association with others; companionship
felon	n. person guilty of felony
felonious	adj. of or involving felony; criminal ;
felony	 n. serious crime, eg murder, armed robbery or arson
felt	 pt, pp of feel1
female	of the sex that can give birth to children or produce eggs
feminine	of or like women; having the qualities or appearance considered characteristic of women
feminism	 n. belief in the principle that women should have the same rights and opportunities (legal, political, social, economic, etc) as men
feminist	 n. supporter offeminism
fence	structure of rails, stakes, wire, etc, esp one put round a field or garden to mark a boundary or keep animals from straying
fencer	 n. person who fences (fence
fencing	material used for making fences, eg wood, wire, etc
fender	metal frame placed around a fireplace to prevent burning coal, etc from falling out or young children from falling in
feral	adj. (of animals) wild or savage, esp after escaping from captivity or from life as a pet
ferment	change chemically through the action of organic substances (esp yeast)
fermentation	 n. fermenting
fern	 n. type of flowerless plant with feathery green leaves
fernery	A place in which ferns are grown.
ferocious	adj. fierce, violent or savage
ferocity	fierceness; violence
ferret	 n. small animal of the weasel family, kept for driving rabbits from their burrows, killing rats, etc
ferromagnetic	[ ferromagnetism: ] adjectiv
ferrous	adj. containing or relating to iron
ferry	boat, hovercraft, etc that carries people and goods across a stretch of water
fertile	able to produce much; rich in nutrients
fertility	n. state or condition of being fertile
fertilize	to make fertile
fertilizer	 any substance, such as manure or a mixture of nitrates, added to soil or water to increase its productivity
fervent	adj. showing warmth and sincerity of feeling; enthusiastic; passionate
fervently	adv: believe fervently in eventual victory
fervid	 adj. = fervent
fervor	 intensity of feeling or expression
festal	 adj. of a festival; gay and joyful ;
fester	become infected and filled with pus
festival	religious or other celebration
festive	adj. of or suitable for a feast or festival; joyous
fetch	~sb/sth (for sb) go for and bring back sb/sth
fete	 n. outdoor entertainment or sale, usu to raise money for a special purpose
fetid	adj. smelling foul or unpleasant; stinking
fetish	object that is worshipped, esp because a spirit is believed to live in it
fetter	chain put round the feet of a person or animal to limit movement
fettered	a chain or bond fastened round the ankle; shackle
fetus	= foetus
feud	 n. long and bitter quarrel between two people, families or groups
feudal	 adj. of or according to the system as during the Middle Ages in Europe, under which people receive land and protection from the landowner and work and fight for him in return
feudalism	n. the feudal system
feuding	[ feud: ] long and bitter hostility between two families, clans, or individuals; vendetta
fever	abnormally high body temperature, esp as a sign of illness
few	(used with pl ns and a pl v ) not many
fez	n. red felt hat with a flat top and a tassle but no brim, worn by men in certain Muslim countries .
fiasco	 n. complete and ridiculous failure
fiat	 n. formal authorization, order or decree
fiber	a natural or synthetic filament that may be spun into yarn, such as cotton or nylon
fibre	any of the slender threads of which many animal and plant tissues are formed
fickle	 adj. often changing; not constant
fiction	type of literature describing imaginary events and people
fictional	adj. of fiction; told as a story
fictionalize	 to make into fiction or give a fictional aspect to
fictitious	 adj. imagined or invented; not real
fidelity	~ loyalty; faithfulness
fidget	 v. ~ (with sth) make small restless movements, thus annoying other people
fidgety	adj. restless or inclined to fidget
fiducial	 Indicative of faith or trust.
fief	 a piece of land held under the feudal system
field	area of land used for pasturing animals or cultivating crops
fieldstone	 building stone found in field
fieldwork	a temporary structure used in defending or fortifying a place or positio
fiend	evil spirit; devil
fiendish	fierce or cruel
fierce	violent and angry
fifteen	pron, det 15; one more than fourteen 15.
fifteenth	pron, det 15th; next after fourteenth 15. n one of fifteen equal parts of sth . For the uses of fifteen and fifteenth see the examples at five and fifth. fifteenfifteenthfivefifth
fifth	pron, det 5th; next after fourth 5
fiftieth	 pron, det 50th; next after forty-ninth 50. n one of fifty equal parts of sth
fifty	pron, det 50; one more than forty-nine 50.
fig	soft sweet fruit, full of small seeds and often eaten dried
fight	v. ~ (against/with sb/sth) struggle against sb/sth using physical force, in a war, battle, etc
fighter	person who fights in war or in sport
figment	n. thing that is not real but only imagined
figurative	 adj. (of words) used in an imaginative or a metaphorical way rather than literally
figure	written symbol for a number, esp 0 to 9 09
figurehead	 carved image on the prow of a ship
figurine	 n. small ornamental statue, esp of a person
filament	very thin strand or fibre, like a thread
filch	v. steal (esp sth of small value)
file	 n. metal tool with a rough surface for cutting, smoothing or shaping hard substances
filet	n. small tender piece of beef without bones, cut from a sirloin
filial	 adj. of or expected from a son or daughter
filibuster	person who tries to delay or prevent the making of decisions in (esp parliamentary) meetings by making long speeches
filigree	 n. fine ornamental work using gold, silver or copper wire
filing	 [ card: ] an index in which each item is separately listed on systematically arranged cards
filings	n. particles removed by a file
fill	~ sth (with sth); ~sth (for sb) make sth full (of sth); occupy all of the space in sth
fillet	piece of meat or fish without bones
filly	n. young female horse
film	~ thin coating or covering on or over sth
filmy	adj. thin and almost transparent
filter	device containing paper, sand, cloth, etc used to hold back any solid material or impurities in a liquid or gas passed through it
filth	disgusting dirt
filthy	disgustingly dirty
fin	thin flat projecting part of a fish, used for swimming and steering .
finable	=> fine1
final	of the end; coming last
finale	 n. last part of a piece of music or a drama, etc
finality	 n. quality or fact of being final
finally	lastly; in conclusion
finance	management of money
financial	adj. concerning money and finance
financier	n. person engaged in financing businesses, etc on a large scale
financing	[ finance: ] the system of money, credit, etc., esp. with respect to government revenues and expenditures
finch	n. any of several types of small songbird with short, stubby bills
find	 v. discover (sth/sb) unexpectedly or by chance; come across
finding	thing that is discovered as the result of an (official) inquiry
fine	 n. sum of money that must be paid as a punishment for breaking a law or rule
finely	well; splendidly
finery	 n. gay and elegant clothes or decoration
finesse	skill in dealing with people or situations cleverly or tactfully
finger	any of the five parts extending from each hand (`little finger, `ring finger, `middle finger, `forefinger/`index finger, thumb); any of these except the thumb
fingernail	 a thin horny translucent plate covering part of the dorsal surface of the end joint of each finger
fingerprint	n. mark made by the tip of a finger on a surface and used for identifying people, esp criminals
finicky	too fussy about food, clothes, etc
finish	come or bring (sth) to an end
finished	~ (infml ) in a state of having completed sth or no longer dealing with sb/sth
finite	having bounds; limited; not infinite
fink	person who gives information to the police about criminals
Finnish	n. language of the Finns . adj of the Finns or their language
fire	burning that produces light and heat
fire extinguisher portable metal container with water or a chemical mixture inside for putting out small fires
	fire extinguisher portable metal container with water or a chemical mixture inside for putting out small fires
firearm	n. portable gun of any sort, eg a rifle, revolver, etc
firebrand	piece of burning wood
firefly	n. type of winged insect that glows in the dark
fireman	member of a fire brigade
fireplace	n. open space for a fire in a room, usu made of brick or stone and set into a wall
firework	 n. device containing chemicals that burn or explode spectacularly, used at celebrations or as a signal
firm	not yielding when pressed; fairly hard
firmament	n. the firmament the sky
firmly	 adv. in a firm way
firmness	 n.
first	1st; coming before all others in time, order, importance, etc
first-rate	 adj. excellent; of the best quality
fiscal	 adj. of or related to government money or public money, usu taxes
fish	 n. cold-blooded animal living in water and breathing through gills, with fins and a tail for swimming
fisherman	n. person who catches fish, esp as a job but also as a sport or hobby ,
fishery	part of the sea where fish are caught commercially
fishing	n. catching fish as a job, sport, or hobby
fishmonger	 n. person whose job it is to sell fish in a shop
fissile	capable of undergoing nuclear fission
fission	splitting of the nucleus of an atom with the release of a large amount of energy
fissure	n. long deep crack in rock or in the earth
fist	hand when closed tightly with the fingers bent into the palm
fit	adj. ~ for sb/sth; ~ to do sth suitable or suited for sb/sth; well adapted for sb/sth; good enough for sb/sth
fitful	 adj. occurring in short periods, not regularly and steadily
fitness	condition of being physically fit
fitting	adj. suitable for the occasion; right or proper
five	 pron, det 5; one more than four 5
fix	fasten firmly to sth
fixate	 stare at
fixed	already arranged and decided; not changing; set
fixture	thing, such as a bath, water tank or toilet, that is fixed in a building and is not removed when the owner moves house
fizzle	make a weak fizzing sound
flabbergast	voverwhelm(sb) with shocked amazement
flabby	soft and loose; not strong or firm
flaccid	adj. soft and weak; loose and limp; not firm ;
flag	piece of cloth with a particular design, that can be attached by one edge to a rope, pole, etc and used as a symbol of a country, party, etc or as a signal
flagellate	 v. whip (sb or oneself), as a religious penance or for sexual gratification
flagellum	a long whiplike outgrowth from a cell that acts as an organ of locomotion: occurs in some protozoans, gametes, spores, etc.
flagging	 adj. languid,weak
flaggy	 adj. -gier, -giest)
flagrant	 adj. particularly bad, shocking and obvious
flagship	ship which has the commander of a fleet on board
flail	n. tool consisting of a stick swinging from a long handle, used esp formerly to separate grain from chaff ,
flair	~ for sth natural ability to do sth well
flak	guns shooting at enemy aircraft; fire from those guns
flake	n. small thin layer or piece, esp one that has broken off a surface or object; small loose bit
flamboyance	extravagant elaborateness
flamboyant	showy, very confident and extravagant
flame	hot glowing portion of burning gas that comes from something on fire
flammability	 [ flammable: ] adj. liable to catch fire; readily combustible; inflammable
flammable	adj. easily set on fire; that can burn easily
flange	 n. raised outside edge, eg of a railway wheel, to hold it in place
flank	fleshy part of the side of an animal or person between the ribs and the hip
flannel	type of soft loosely woven woollen cloth
flap	~flat piece of material that covers an opening or hangs down
flare	burn brightly but briefly or unsteadily
flaring	[ flare: ] to burn or cause to burn with an unsteady or sudden bright flame
flash	sudden bright burst of light or flame
flashily	 adv: flashily dressed
flashy	 adj. attractive but usu not in good taste; showy
flask	bottle with a narrow neck, esp one used in scientific laboratories for mixing or storing chemicals
flat	 n. (also esp US apartment) set of rooms (living-room, bedroom, kitchen, etc) for living in, usu on one floor of a building
flatcar	n. railway carriage without a roof or raised sides, used for carrying freight ,
flatness	 n.
flatten	~ (out) become or make (sth) flat
flatter	praise too much or insincerely, esp in order to gain favour for oneself
flatterer	n. person who flatters
flattering	 adj. that flatters a person
flattery	 n. insincere praise
flatulence	gas in the stomach or digestive tract
flaunt	 v. show (sth considered valuable) in order to gain the admiration of other people
flavor	 [ flavour: ] taste perceived in food or liquid in the mouth
flavour	taste and smell, esp of food
flavouring	 n. thing added to food to give it flavour
flaw	crack or fault (in an object or in material); imperfection
flawed	 [ flaw: ] an imperfection, defect, or blemish
flawless	 adj. perfect
flax	plant grown for its fibre and seeds
flay	remove the skin from (a dead animal)
fleck	very small patch or spot of a colour
fled	 pt, pp of flee
fledge	 to acquire the feathers necessary for flight or independent activity
fledged	adj. having fully developed wing feathers for flying; able to fly
fledgling	inexperienced
flee	~ (from sb/sth) run or hurry away; escape (esp from danger, threat, etc)
fleece	woolly hair of a sheep or similar animal
fleet	group of warships, submarines, etc under one commander
fleeting	 adj. passing quickly; lasting only a short time
flesh	soft substance between the skin and bones of animal bodies, consisting of muscle and fat
flew	 pt of fly
flex	 n. (US cord) (length of) flexible insulated wire used for carrying an electric current to an appliance
flexibility	easily bent without braking
flexible	that can bend easily without breaking
flick	quick light blow, eg with a whip or the tip of a finger
flicker	(of a light or flame) burn or shine unsteadily
flight	action or process of flying through the air; ability to fly
flightless	 adj. not able to fly
flighty	adj. (esp of a woman or her behaviour) changeable and unreliable; not serious
flimsy	(of cloth or material) light and thin
flinch	move or draw back suddenly, from shock, fear or pain
fling	throw (sth) violently, angrily or hurriedly
flint	very hard grey stone that can produce sparks when struck against steel
flinty	made of flint; very hard, like flint ;
flip	toss (sth) with a sharp movement of the thumb and forefinger so that it turns over in the air
flippancy	n. being flippant
flippant	 adj. not showing sufficient respect or seriousness
flirt	behave (towards sb) in a romantic or suggestive way but without serious intentions
flirtation	flirting
flirtatious	adj. fond of flirting
flit	fly or move lightly and quickly from one place to another
float	stay on or at the surface of a liquid and not sink; be held up in air or gas
flock	~ group of sheep, goats or birds of the same kind, either kept together or feeding and travelling together
floe	 n. sheet of floating ice, usu on the sea
flood	(cause a place that is usu dry to) be filled or overflow with water; inundate
floodgate	gate that can be opened or closed to control the flow of water
floor	surface of a room on which one stands, walks, etc
flop	move or fall clumsily, helplessly or loosely
floppy	 adj. tending to flop; soft and flexible; falling loosely
flora	n. all the plants of a particular area or period of time
floral	 adj. made of flowers
florescence	the process, state, or period of flowering
florid	elaborate and ornate; excessively decorated or colourful
floridness	 ruddiness/heavily decorated/ornateness
florist	n. person who has a shop that sells flowers
flotilla	 n. fleet of boats or small ships
flotsam	parts of a wrecked ship or its cargo found floating in the sea
flounder	move or struggle helplessly or clumsily; move with difficulty, as through mud or deep snow
flour	n. fine powder obtained by grinding grain, esp wheat or rye, and used for making bread, cakes, etc
flourish	be successful, very active, or widespread; prosper
floury	 adj. of or like flour; covered with flour
flout	v. disobey openly and scornfully
flouting	 [ flout: ] to show contempt (for); scoff or jeer (at)
flow	(of a liquid) move freely and continuously
flower	part of a plant from which the seed or fruit develops, often brightly coloured and lasting only a short time
flowered	 adj. decorated with patterns of flowers
flowerless	 adj. not having or not producing flowers
flowery	covered with or having a lot of flowers
flowing	[ flow: ] (of liquids) to move or be conveyed as in a stream
flown	pp of fly2
flu	n. = influenza
fluctuate	(of a price, number, rate, etc) rise and fall; change irregularly
fluctuating	[ fluctuate: ] to change or cause to change position constantly; be or make unstable; waver or vary
fluctuation	n. ~ (of/in sth)
flue	 n. channel, pipe, etc through which smoke, fumes or hot air pass from a boiler or oven, usu to a chimney
fluency	n. quality or condition of being fluent
fluent	able to speak or write a language or perform an action smoothly, accurately and with ease
fluffiness	 n.
fluffy	like fluff; covered with fluff
fluid	able to flow freely, as gases and liquids do; not solid or rigid
fluidity	 n. quality or state of being fluid
fluke	n. (infml ) thing that is accidentally successful; lucky stroke in a game
flummery	 a bland custard or pudding especially of oatmeal ; meaningless ceremonies and flattery
flummox	v. bewilder, confuse or disconcert (sb)
flung	pt, pp of fling
flunk	fail (an examination, academic course, etc)
fluorescent	of, having or showing fluorescence
fluorine	 n. element, a pale yellow gas that is both poisonous and corrosive .
flush	flow of blood to the face that causes a red colouring; blush
fluster	v. make nervous and confused
flustered	[ fluster: ] to make or become confused, nervous, or upset
flute	n. wind instrument in the form of a pipe, with holes stopped by fingers or keys and a mouth-hole at the side
fluted	 (esp. of the shaft of a column) having flutes
flutter	(of the wings of birds, butterflies, etc) move lightly and quickly
fluvial	adj. of or found in rivers
flux	continuous change or succession of changes; unsettled state
fly	type of insect with two wings, esp the house-fly
flyspeck	 the small speck of the excrement of a fly
foam	mass of small, usu white, air bubbles formed in or on a liquid
focus	,
focusable	[ focus: ] a point of convergence of light or other electromagnetic radiation, particles, sound waves, etc., or a point from which they appear to diverge
focused	[ focus: ] a point of convergence of light or other electromagnetic radiation, particles, sound waves, etc., or a point from which they appear to diverge
fodder	 n. dried food, hay, etc forhorses and farm animals ,
fog	thick cloud of tiny drops of water close to or just above land or sea; thick mist
foggy	not clear because of fog; very misty
foghorn	a mechanical instrument sounded at intervals to serve as a warning to vessels in fog
foible	 n. small, usu harmless, peculiarity or weakness in a person's character
foil	metal rolled or hammered into a very thin flexible sheet
foist	v. foist sth on sb force sb into accepting sth not wanted
fold	~ sth (up) bend or turn sth so that one part of it lies on another; close or flatten sth by pressing two parts of it together
folder	 n. cover for holding loose papers, etc, made of stiff material, esp cardboard, folded together
folding	[ fold: ] to bend or be bent double so that one part covers another
foliage	n. leaves of a tree or plant; leaves with their stems and branches
folio	large sheet of paper folded once, making two leaves or four pages of a book
folk	people in general
folklore	 n. traditions, stories, customs, etc of a community
folklorist	 n. person who studies folklore, esp as an academic subject
follow	 v. ~ sth (by/with sth) (cause sth to) come, go or take place after (sb/sth else) (in space, time or order)
follower	 n. person who follows; supporter of a particular person, cause or belief
following	next in time
folly	~ foolishness; lack of wisdom
foment	arouse or increase
fomentation	act of fomenting
fond	kind and loving; affectionate
fondle	 v. touch or stroke gently and lovingly; caress
fondness	 n. ~ liking and affection
food	any substance that people or animals eat or drink or plants take in to maintain life and growth
foodstuff	n. any substance used as food
fool	person who acts unwisely; person lacking in good sense or judgement; idiot
foolery	n. foolish behaviour
foolhardy	adj. foolishly bold or rash; reckless
foolish	(of people) lacking good sense or judgement; silly
foolishness	n.
foolproof	not capable of going wrong or of being misunderstood; very plain and simple
foolscap	 n. large size of writing or printing paper, about 330 200 mm 330 200400mm
foot	 n. lowest part of the leg, below the ankle, on which a person or animal stands
football	 n. large round or oval inflated ball, usu of leather
foothold	place where one's foot can be supported securely when climbing
footle	 v. ~ (infml ) spend time aimlessly; do nothing in particular
footlights	 n. row of lights along the front of the stage in a theatre .
footling	 adj. unimportant; trivial
footloose	adj. footloose and fancy-free without personal responsibilities or commitments; free to act as one pleases ;
footnote	 n. additional piece of information at the bottom of a page in a book .
footpath	 n. = path 1
footprint	n. impression of a human or an animal foot on a surface; mark left by a foot
footstep	(usu pl ) sound or mark of a step taken when walking
fop	n. man who is too concerned with his clothes and appearance; dandy
foppery	Dandyism.
foppish	adj. of or like a fop
for	(indicating the person intended to receive or benefit from sth )
forage	food for horses and cattle
forager	[ forage: ] food for horses or cattle, esp. hay or straw
foray	sudden attack, esp to obtain sth; raid
forbade	pt of forbid
forbear	v. ~ (from sth/doing sth) (fml ) refrain from doing or saying sth in a patient or self-controlled way
forbearance	n. patient self-control; tolerance
forbearing	 [ forbear: ] to cease or refrain (from doing something)
forbears	 To refrain from; resist
forbid	order (sb) not to do sth
forbidden	not permitted by order or law
forbidding	 adj. looking unfriendly; stern; threatening
forbore	pt of forbear1
forborne	 pp of forbear1
forby	Besides.
force	physical strength or power
forceful	 adj. strong and assertive
forcefulness	 n.
forceps	n. pincers or tongs used by dentists, surgeons, etc for gripping things
forcible	done by or involving the use of physical force
ford	 n. shallow place in a river where one can walk or drive across
fordable	 adj. that can be forded
fore	situated in the front part of a vehicle
forebear	 n. person from whom one is descended; ancestor ;
forebears	n. person from whom one is descended;ancestor
forebode	 v. be a sign or a warning of (esp trouble)
foreboding	 n. ~ strong feeling that danger or trouble is coming
forecast	 v. tell in advance (what is expected to happen); predict with the help of information
forecastle	 n. part of the front of certain ships where the crew live and sleep
foreclose	v. ~ (of a bank, etc that has lent money for a mortgage) take possession of the property of (sb), usu because repayments have not been made
foreclosure	n. foreclosing a mortgage
forecourt	large open area or courtyard in front of a building, esp the front of a filling station where petrol is sold
forefather	 n. person from whom one is descended; ancestor, esp a male
forefinger	 n. finger next to the thumb; index finger .
forefront	n. the ~ the most forward or important position or place
forego	 To deny oneself the pleasure or profit of.
foregoing	adj. preceding; just mentioned
foregone	 adj. a ,foregone conclusion result that can be predicted with certainty
foreground	 n. the foregroundfront part of a view, scene, picture, etc; part nearest the observer
forehead	 n. part of the face above the eyebrows and below the hair .
foreign	of, in or from a country or an area other than one's own
foreigner	person from a country other than one's own
foreignness	[ foreign: ] of, involving, located in, or coming from another country, area, people, etc.
forejudge	To judge of before hearing evidence.
foreknow	 to know in advance
foreknowledge	n. knowledge of sth before it happens or exists
foreman	experienced worker who supervises and directs other workers
foremost	most famous or important; best or chief
forensic	 adj. of, related to or used in law
foreordain	 in theology ; foreordain or determine beforehand
forepeak	 The extreme forward part of a ship's hold, under the lowest deck.
forerun	To go before as introducing or ushering in.
forerunner	 n. person or thing that prepares the way for the coming of sb or sth else more important; sign of what is to follow
foresail	 n. main sail on the front mast of a ship
foresee	v. see or know that sth is going to happen in the future; predict
foreseeable	[ foresee: ] to see or know beforehand
foreshadow	 v. be a sign or warning of
foreshore	n. part of the shore between the limits of high and low tides, or between the sea and land that is cultivated or built on
foresight	n. ability to see what one's future needs are likely to be; careful planning
forest	trees, bushes, etc
forestall	v. act before so as to prevent him from doing sth
forested	 adj. covered in forest
forestry	 n. science and practice of planting, caring for, and managing forests
foretaste	n. ~ small experience of sth before it actually happens; sample
foretell	 v. (fml) tell (what will happen in the future); predict
forethought	n. careful thought or planning for the future
foretold	 pt, pp of foretell
forever	for all time; always
foreword	 n. short introduction to a book, printed at the beginning and usu written by a person other than the author ,
forfeit	v. lose or give up (sth) as a consequence of or punishment for having done sth wrong, or in order to achieve sth
forfeiture	 n. ~ (act of) forfeiting sth
forfend	To ward off.
forgave	pt of forgive
forge	workshop with a fire and an anvil where metals are heated and shaped, esp one used by a smith for making horseshoes
forger	 n. person who forges money, a document, etc
forgery	forging (forge
forget	~ about sth (not used in the continuous tenses ) fail to remember or recall (sth); lose the memory of (sth)
forgetful	in the habit of forgetting; likely to forget
forgetfulness	n.
forgivable	 adj. that can be forgiven
forgive	~ sth; ~ sb (for sth/doing sth) stop being angry or bitter towards sb or about sth; stop blaming or wanting to punish sb
forgo	v. give up or do without (esp sth pleasant)
forgot	 pt of forget
forgotten	pp of forget
fork	small implement with a handle and two or more points or prongs, used for lifting food to the mouth or holding things firmly while they are cut
forlorn	lonely and unhappy; uncared for
form	outward physical appearance of sb/sth; shape
formal	following accepted rules of behaviour; showing or expecting careful, serious behaviour, as eg on official occasions or in distant, not close, relationships
formality	careful observance of rules, conventions, etc of language or behaviour
formalize	to be or make formal
formally	 adv: The new rates of pay have not been formally agreed
format	shape, size, binding, etc of a book
formation	organizing and developing
formative	adj. having an important and lasting influence on the development of sb's character
former	of an earlier period or time
formerly	 adv. in earlier times; previously
formidable	causing fear or great anxiety; frightening; awesome
formula	n. (chemistry ) set of symbols showing the elements that a substance is made of
formulaic	adj. made up of set patterns of words
formulate	create in a precise form
formulation	n. action of formulating
fornicate	v. (of people not married to each other) have sexual intercourse
forsake	(fml ) give (sth) up; renounce
forsaken	 the past participle of: forsake
forswear	 v. (promise to) give up (sth); renounce
fort	buildingspecially made or strengthened for the military defence of an area
forte	n. thing that sb does particularly well; strong point
forth	out from home, etc
forthcoming	about to happen or appear in the near future
forthright	 adj. clear and honest in manner and speech; straightforward
fortieth	 => forty
fortification	fortifying; strengthening
fortify	~ sth (against sth) strengthen (a place) against attack, by building walls, etc
fortitude	n. courage, endurance and self-control in facing pain, danger or difficulty
fortnight	(period of) two weeks
fortress	 n. castle or large fort; town strengthened against attack
fortuitous	 adj. happening by chance or coincidence
fortunate	having good luck; lucky
fortunately	[ fortunate: ] having good luck; lucky
fortune	chance, esp regarded as a power affecting people's lives
fortune-teller	 n. person who tells people's fortunes
forty	pron, det, n 40; one more than thirty-nine 40.
forum	place where important public issues can be discussed
forward	directed or moving towards the front
forwardness	n. state of being forward1
forwent	pt of forgo
fosse	a ditch dug as a fortification and usually filled with water
fossil	remains of a prehistoric animal or plant preserved by being buried in earth and now hardened like rock
fossilize	to convert or be converted into a fossil
foster	help the growth or development of (sth); encourage or promote
fought	 pt, pp of fight
foul	having a bad smell or taste; dirty and disgusting
fouled	 [ foul: ] offensive to the senses; revolting
found	pt, pp of find
foundation	act of founding
founded	[ find: ] to meet with or discover by chance
founder	n. person who founds or establishes sth
foundry	n. place where metal or glass is melted and moulded into articles of particular shapes
fountain	jet of water, esp one forced up into the air artificially as an ornament
four	4; one more than three 4.
four-poster	n. (esp formerly) large bed with a tall post at each of the four corners to support curtains
foursome	four people joining together to play a game, esp golf
fourteen	 pron, det 14; one more than thirteen 14.
fourteenth	 pron, det 14th; next after thirteenth 14. n one of fourteen equal parts of sth . For the uses of fourteen and fourteenth see the examples at five and fifth. fourteenfourteenthfivefifth
fourth	 pron, det 4th; next after third 4,
fowl	domestic cock or hen
fox	vixen ) wild animal of the dog family, with reddish brown fur, a pointed face and a bushy tail
foyer	n. entrance hall or large open space in a theatre, hotel, etc where people can meet or wait
fracas	(usu sing)noisy quarrel, fight, or disturbanc
fraction	small part, bit, amount, or proportion
fractional	of or in fractions
fractious	adj. irritable; bad-tempered
fracture	 n. instance of breaking (esp a bone)
fragile	easily damaged or broken; delicate
fragility	n.
fragment	small part or piece broken off
fragmentary	adj. made up of small incomplete or unconnected parts
fragmentation	n. fragmentation bomb bomb designed to break up into many small pieces
fragrance	n. pleasant or sweet smell; scent or perfume
fragrant	 adj. having a pleasant or sweet smell
frail	physically weak or delicate
frailty	physical weakness
frame	border of wood, metal, etc in which a picture, door, pane of glass, etc is enclosed or set
frame-up	 n. situation in which false evidence is produced against an innocent person so that he appears guilty
framework	structure giving shape and support
framing	a frame, framework, or system of frames
France	 a republic in W Europe, between the English Channel, the Mediterranean, and the Atlantic: the largest country wholly in Europe; became a republic in 1793 after the French Revolution and an empire in 1804 under Napoleon
franchise	right to vote at public elections
frank	adj. ~ (with sb) (about sth) showing thoughts and feelings openly; honest and direct in speech; plain and blunt
frankincense	 n. type of sweet-smelling gum from a tree, burnt as incense ,
frankness	n.
frantic	in an extreme state of emotion, esp fear or anxiety
frantically	adv: shouting frantically for help
fraternal	adj. of a brother or brothers; brotherly or friendly
fraternity	brotherly feeling; brotherhood
fraud	deceiving sb illegally in order to make money or obtain goods
fraudulence	Deceitfulness.
fraudulent	deceitful or dishonest
fraught	~ with sth filled with sth; charged with sth
fray	 n. the fray fight, contest or argument; lively or challenging action
freak	person considered abnormal because of his behaviour, appearance, ideas, etc
freckle	n. one of the small light-brown spots on the human skin
free	 adj. (of a person) not a slave or prisoner; allowed to move where one wants; having physical freedom
freebooter	 buccaneer
freedom	condition of being free; state of not being a prisoner or slave
freelancer	 a person who pursues a profession without a long-term commitment to any one employer
freely	without any obstruction; in an unrestricted or uncontrolled manner
Freemason	n. member of an international secret society with the aims of offering mutual help and developing friendly relations among its members
freethinker	One who rejects authority or inspiration in religion.
freeway	n. = motorway (motor).
freewheel	to move, live, or play freely or irresponsibly
freeze	(esp of water) change or be changed from liquid to solid by extreme cold
freight	n. goods transported by ships, aeroplanes, or trains
french	the French the people who live in France
Frenchman	n. man of French birth or nationality
frenetic	 adj. very excited; frenzied; frantic
frenzied	 adj. wildly excited or agitated; frantic
frenzy	 n. state of extreme excitement; extreme and wild activity or behaviour
frequency	rate of occurrence or repetition of sth, usu measured over a particular period of time
frequent	 adj. happening often; habitual
frequently	 adv. often
fresco	 n. picture painted in water-colour on a wall or ceiling before the plaster is dry
fresh	new or different
freshen	~ sth make sth fresh
freshener	n. thing that freshens sth
freshwater	 adj. from, of, living in or containing fresh water
fret	~ (about/at/over sth) (cause sb to) become unhappy, bad-tempered, or anxious about sth; worry
fretful	adj. irritable or complaining, esp because unhappy or worried
fretwork	 n. ornamental work in a decorative pattern, esp wood cut into patterns with a fretsaw
friable	adj. easily broken up or crumbled
friction	rubbing of one surface or thing against another
Friday	 n. the sixth day of the week, next after Thursday
fridge	 n. refrigerator
friend	person one knows and likes, but who is not a relation
friendless	 adj. without any friends
friendliness	 n.
friendly	behaving in a kind and pleasant way; acting like a friend
friendship	 n. feeling or relationship between friends; state of being friends
frieze	 n. band of sculpture or decoration round the top of a wall or building
frig	 v. (phr v) frig about/around (<!> infml , ) waste time; mess about
frigate	n. small fast naval escort-vessel
fright	feeling of sudden unpleasant fear
frighten	fill with fear; make afraid; scare
frightened	 adj. in a state of fear; afraid; scared
frightening	adj. causing fear; alarming
frighteningly	adv: The film was frighteningly realistic
frightful	very unpleasant; dreadful
frightfully	adv. very; awfully
frigid	very cold
frigidity	a lack of passion or enthusiasm
fringe	(US bang) front hair cut so that it hangs over the forehead
frippery	unnecessary showy ornamentation, esp in clothing
frisk	pass one's hands over (sb) in a search for hidden weapons, drugs, etc
frisky	 adj. lively and energetic, wanting to enjoy oneself
fritter	v. fritter sth away (on sth) waste (esp one's time or money) foolishly (on small useless things)
frivolity	frivolous behaviour
frivolous	not sensible or serious; foolish and light-hearted
frivolousness	[ frivolous: ] not serious or sensible in content, attitude, or behaviour; silly
frizz	v. form into small tight curls
frizzle	v. ~ (up) twist (hair) into small tight curls
fro	adv. to and fro
frock	dress worn by women or girls
frog	type of small cold-blooded smooth-skinned animal that lives in water or on land and has very long back legs for jumping, and no tail
frolic	 v. ~ (about) play about in a lively happy way
frolicsome	 adj. merry; playful
from	(indicating the place or direction from which sb/sth starts )
from the outset	prep. from the beginning
frond	n. leaf-like part of a fern or palm
front	most important part or side of sth; part or side that faces forward; most forward part of sth
frontier	~ (between sth and sth); ~ (with sth) border between two countries
frost	weather condition in which the temperature falls below freezing-point, usu accompanied by the formation of frost(2)
frothy	full of or covered with froth
frown	v. 1~ bring the eyebrows together, so wrinkling the skin on one's forehead (to express anger, thought, worry, etc)
frowsy	 [ frowzy: ] untidy or unkempt in appearance; shabby
frowzy	untidy or unclean in appearance; shabby ;
froze	pt of freeze
frozen	 pp of freeze
fructify	 v. (fml ) (cause sth to) bear fruit or be fruitful
frugal	 adj. careful and thrifty, esp with money and food
frugality	thrift
fruit	fleshy seed-bearing part of a plant used as food; quantity of these
fruitful	having many good results; productive or profitable; successful
fruition	 n. fulfilment of hopes, plans, etc; getting what one wants or has worked for
fruitless	adj. producing little or no result; unsuccessful
frump	n. person (usu a woman) who wears dull old-fashioned clothes
frustrate	prevent (sb) from doing or achieving sth
frustration	being frustrated
fry	cook (sth) or be cooked in boiling fat or oil
fuddle	 v. confuse (sb/sth), esp with alcoholic drink
fuel	material burned to produce heat or power, eg wood, coal, oil, etc
fugacious	Fleeting.
fugitive	 n. ~ person who is running away or escaping
fulcrum	n. point on which a lever is supported
fulfil	perform (sth) or bring (sth) to completion
fulfill	[ fulfil: ] to bring about the completion or achievement of (a desire, promise, etc.)
fulfillment	[ fulfil: ] to bring about the completion or achievement of (a desire, promise, etc.)
fulfilment	 n. fulfilling or being fulfilled
full	~ (of sth/sb) holding or containing as much or as many as possible; completely filled
full-blown	 adj. fully developed; quite open
full-bodied	adj. rich in quality, tone, etc
full-fledged	 (of persons e.g.) having gained full status
full-length	adj. (of a picture, mirror, etc) showing the whole (human) figure
fullness	completeness; being full;
full-time	adj. for or during the whole of the working day or week
fully	completely; entirely
fulminate	v. ~ protest strongly and loudly
fulmination	n. fulminating
fulsome	adj. excessive and insincere
fulsomeness	n.
fumble	touch or handle awkwardly or nervously
fume	 n. smoke, gas or vapour that smells strongly
fumes	[ fume: ] to be overcome with anger or fury; rage
fumigate	 v. destroy infectious germs, insects, etc in with the fumes ofcertain chemicals
fun	enjoyment; pleasure
function	special activity or purpose of a person or thing
functional	of or having a functionor functions
functionary	n. person with official duties
fund	sum of money saved or made available for a particular purpose
fundamental	of or forming the basis or foundation of sth; essential
fundamentally	adv. basically
funds	money that is readily available
funeral	ceremony of burying or burning dead people
funereal	 adj. suitable for a funeral; gloomy; dismal
fungi	any of a major group (Fungi) of saprophytic and parasitic spore-producing organisms usually classified as plants that lack chlorophyll and include molds, rusts, mildews, smuts, mushrooms, and yeasts
fungible	 That may be measured, counted, or weighed.
fungicide	n. substance that kills fungus
fungous	adj. of, like or caused by fungus
fungus	any of varioustypes of plant without leaves, flowers or green colouring-matter, growing on other plants or decaying matter
funk	(also blue funk) (state of) fear or anxiety
funnel	tube or pipe that is wide at the top and narrow at the bottom, used for pouring liquids, powders, etc into a small opening
funnily	(expressing surprise at a coincidence, etc )
funny	causing amusement, laughter, etc
fur	soft thick hair covering the bodies of certain animals
furbish	v. ~ sth polish, clean or renovate (esp sth that has not been used for a long time)
furious	~ (at sth) full of violent anger
furlong	n. distance of
furlough	 n. absence from duty, esp that granted to civil servants, soldiers, etc working abroad
furnace	enclosed fireplace for heating the water used to warm a building by means of pipes
furnish	~ sth provide sth with furniture; put furniture in (a place)
furniture	n. movable articles, eg tables, chairs, beds, etc put into a house or an office to make it suitable for living or working in .
furor	A general commotion; public disorder or uproar.
furrier	n. person who prepares or sells fur or fur clothing
furrow	long narrow trench cut in the earth, esp by a plough
further	more distant in space, direction or time; farther
furtherance	n. advancement of sb's interests, a cause, etc
furthermore	adv. in addition; moreover ;
furthest	 adj. adv = farthest
furtive	adj. done secretly and quietly so as not to be noticed
furtively	adv.
furtiveness	n.
fury	wild and violent anger
fuse	piece of easily burnt material along which a spark moves to ignite a firework, bomb, etc so that it explodes
fusible	adj. that can be melted or joined together
fusillade	continuous or simultaneous shooting of guns
fusion	the blending or uniting of different things into one, by melting, etc
fuss	(esp unnecessary) nervous excitement or activity
fussy	nervously active or excited about small things
fustian	thick strong coarse cotton cloth
fusty	smelling old, stale or damp
futile	 adj. producing no result; useless; pointless
futility	 n. uselessness; pointlessness
future	 the time yet to come
futurist	 n, adj of futurism
fuzzy	like fuzz; having a soft and fluffy texture
gab	continuous, esp trivial, chatter
gabble	 v. ~ (on/away) talk quickly and indistinctly
gadfly	fly that stings horses and cattle
gadget	 n. small mechanical device or tool
gadgetry	 n. gadgets collectively
gadgets	[ gadget: ] a small mechanical device or appliance
gaff	 n. stick with an iron hook for pulling large fish out of the water
gaffe	n. social blunder; indiscreet act or remark
gaggle	flock
gaiety	 n. merriment; cheerfulness; being gay
gaily	Merrily.
gain	increase in wealth; profit; advantage
gainsay	v. (arch ) (usu in negative sentences or questions ) contradict (sb/sth); deny (sth)
gait	 n. manner of walking or running
galactic	 adj. of a galaxy or the Galaxy
galaxy	any of the large systems of stars in outer space
gale	very strong wind storm (at sea) 8
gall	bitter liquid secreted by the liver; bile
gallant	brave
gallantry	bravery
galleon	n. large Spanish sailing-ship used from the 15th to the 17th century 1517
gallery	room or building for showing works of art
galley	long flat ship, usu rowed by slaves or criminals; ancient Greek or Roman warship ;
gallon	 n. measure for liquids; four quarts , 44.5.
gallop	fastest pace (of a horse, etc) with all four feet off the ground at each stride
gallows	n. wooden framework on which criminals are put to death by hanging
galore	 adv. (following ns ) in plenty
galvanic	producing an electric current by chemical action
galvanism	Current electricity, especially that arising from chemical action.
galvanize	to stimulate or excite as if by an electric shock
gambit	opening movein chess in which a player sacrifices a piece in order to win an advantage later
gamble	play games of chance, etc for money
gambler	n. person who gambles
gambling	 n. playing games, etc for money
gambol	 v. (US also -l-) jump or skip about playfully
game	form of play or sport with rules
gamely	,
gamester	 A gambler.
gamut	the gamut complete range or scale
gander	male goose
gang	organized group of criminals
gangling	 adj. tall, thin and awkward-looking
gangly	 [ gangling: ] gangly
gangrene	 n. decay and death of body tissue when the blood supply has been stopped
gangster	 n. member of a gang of armed criminals
gangway	movable bridge for entering or leaving a ship
gaol	 n. prison
gaoler	 n. person in charge of a gaol and the prisoners in it
gap	opening or break in sth or between two things
gape	~ (often derog ) stare with an open mouth, usu in surprise
garage	building in which to keep one or more cars, vans, etc
garb	 n. clothing (esp as worn by a particular type of person)
garbage	waste material, esp domestic refuse
garble	 to so alter or distort as to create a wrong impression or change the meaning
garbled	adj. confusedor misleading
garden	private ground used for growing flowers, fruit, vegetables, etc, typically with a lawn or other open space for recreation
gardener	 n. person who works in a garden, either for pay or as a hobby
gardenia	tree or shrub with large white or yellow flowers, usu sweet-smelling
gardening	n. cultivating of gardens
gargantuan	 adj. enormous; gigantic
gargoyle	 n. stone or metal spout in the form of a grotesque human or animal figure, for carrying rain-water away from the roof of a church, etc
garish	 adj. unpleasantly bright; over-coloured or over-decorated, esp in a vulgar way
garishness	 n.
garland	n. circle of flowers, leaves or ribbons, worn or hung as a decoration
garment	article of clothing
garner	 v. ~ sth ~ sth (in/up) (fml ) collect sth in and (usu) store it
garnish	v. ~ sth decorate (food for the table) with small additional amounts of food
garnishment	the act of garnishing
garret	 n. room on the top floor of a house (esp in the roof)
garrison	 n. troops stationed in a town or fort
garrote	To execute by strangling.
garrulity	garrulousness ns talkativeness
garrulous	adj. talking too much, esp about unimportant things
garrulousness	[ garrulous: ] given to constant and frivolous chatter; loquacious; talkative
gas	air-like substance (ie not a solid or liquid)
gaseous	adj. like, containing or being gas
gash	 n. ~ long deep cut or wound
gasification	especially:conversion of coal into natural gas
gasoline	 n. = petrol
gasp	~ ~ (for sth) take one or more quick deep breaths with open mouth, because of surprise or exhaustion
gastric	adj. of the stomach
gastritis	n. inflammation of the stomach
gastronomic	adj. of gastronomy
gastronomy	 n. art and science of choosing, cooking and eating good food
gate	movable barrier, usu on hinges, which closes an opening in a wall, fence or hedge
gateway	way in and out that can be closed by a gate or gates
gather	~ round (sb/sth); ~ sb/sth round (sb/sth) come or bring sb/sth together in one place
gathering	n. meeting or coming together of people
gauche	socially awkward or clumsy
gaucheness	 n. gauche behaviour
gaucherie	socially awkward, tactless bahaviour
gaudy	adj. (derog ) too bright and showy, esp in a vulgar way
gauge	standard measure, esp of width or thickness
gaunt	made exceptionally thin by hunger or illness; haggard
gauntlet	metal glove forming part of a suit of armour, worn by soldiers in the Middle Ages
gauze	thin, often transparent, fabric of cotton, silk, etc
gauzy	adj. of or like gauze
gave	 pt of give
gavel	n. small hammer used by an auctioneer or chairman as a signal for order or attention
gawk	 v. ~ (infml ) stare impolitely or stupidly; gawp
gay	homosexual
gaze	 v. look long and steadily (at sb/sth), usu in surprise or admiration
gazer	[ gaze: ] to look long and fixedly, esp. in wonder or admiration
gazette	official journal with public notices and lists of government, military, legal and university appointments
gazetteer	n. index of geographical names
gear	equipment, clothing, etc needed for an expedition, a sport, etc
geese	pl of goose
gel	n. semi-solid jelly-like substance
gem	precious stone or jewel, esp when cut and polished
gemstone	 n. precious or semi-precious stone, esp before cutting into shape
gendarme	 n. member of a military force employed on police duties, esp in France and French-speaking countries
gender	(in certain languages) classification of a noun or pronoun as masculine or feminine
gene	 n. unit in a chromosome which controls heredity
genealogical	 adj. concerned with tracing family descent
genealogist	n. student of or expert in genealogy
genealogy	study of family history, showing who the ancestors of particular people were and how they were related to each other
genera	 pl of genus
general	affecting all or most people, places or things
generality	general statement, esp one that is vague or indefinite
generalization	 a principle, theory, etc., with general application
generalize	 To draw general inferences.
generally	by most people; widely
generate	 v. cause to exist or occur; produce
generation	production
generator	(US dynamo) machine for producing electrical energy
generic	adj. shared by or including a whole group or class; not specific
generosity	quality of being generous
generous	giving or ready to give freely
genes	[ gene: ] a unit of heredity composed of DNA occupying a fixed position on a chromosome. A gene may determine a characteristic of an individual by specifying a polypeptide chain that forms a protein or part of a protein (structural gene)
genesis	n. (fml) beginning; starting-point; origin
genetic	adj. of genes; of genetics
genetically	adv: genetically determined, linked, etc
geneticist	 n. specialist in genetics
genetics	 n. scientific study of the ways in which characteristics are passed from parents to their offspring
genial	kindly; pleasant; sociable
geniality	quality of being genial
genital	adj. of animal reproduction or reproductive organs
genitive	 n. special form of a noun, a pronoun or an adjective used (in certain inflected languages) to indicate or describe esp possession ,
genius	exceptionally great mental or creative ability
genocide	 n. deliberate extermination of a nation or race of people
genome	 the complement of haploid chromosomes contained in a single gamete or nucleus
genre	n. particular style or kind, esp of works of art or literature grouped according to their form or subject matter
genteel	polite or refined in an affected or exaggerated way
gentile	n, adj not Jewish
gentility	n. genteel manners and behaviour; social superiority
gentle	mild; kind; careful; not rough, violent or severe
gentleman	(approv or ironic ) man who is polite and shows consideration for the feelings of other people; man who always acts in an honourable way
gentlemanly	adj. of or like a gentleman(1)
gentleness	 n.
gently	in a gentlemanner
gentry	 n. people of good social position next below the nobility
genuflect	v. bend the knee, esp in worship ,
genuine	real; truly what it is said to be; not fake or artificial
genuinely	adv: genuinely sorry
genuineness	n.
genus	(biology ) group of animals or plants within a family(4), often itself subdivided into several species(1)
geographical	 adj. of or relating to geography
geography	scientific study of the earth's surface, physical features, divisions, climate, products, population, etc
geologic	 [ geology: ] the scientific study of the origin, history, structure, and composition of the earth
geologist	n. student of or expert in geology
geology	n. scientific study of the earth's crust, rocks, strata, etc and of the history of its development
geometric	adj. of geometry; of or like the lines, figures, etc used in geometry
geometrical	[ geometric: ] of, relating to, or following the methods and principles of geometry
geometrically	adv. geometric progressionordered set of numbers in which each is multiplied or divided by a fixed number to produce the next, as 1, 3, 9
geometrician	 [ geometer: ] geometrician
geometry	 n. branch of mathematics dealing with the properties and relations of lines, angles, surfaces and solids
geriatric	adj. of or relating to geriatrics
geriatrics	 n. branch of medicine dealing with the diseases and care of old people
germ	portion of a living organism capable of becoming a new organism; embryo of a seed ;
german	 adj. of Germany, its culture, its language or its people
germane	adj. ~ (fml ) relevant
Germany	a country in central Europe: in the Middle Ages the centre of the Holy Roman Empire
germicide	n. substance used for killing germs
germinal	 adj. in the earliest stage of development
germinate	v. start growing
germination	n. germinating; sprouting
gerontocracy	 government ruled by old people
gerontology	n. scientific study of old age and the process of growing old
gerrymander	v. arrange the boundaries of or divide (an area) for voting in order to give unfair advantages to one party in an election
gestate	evolve; as in pre-natal growth
gestation	carrying or being carried in the womb between conception and birth
gesticulate	v. move the hands or arms instead of speaking or to emphasize one's words
gesticulation	gesticulating
gesture	expressive movement of a part of the body, esp the hand or head
get	v.
get on	 (also get along) (esp followed by an adv or used in questions after how how) perform or fare in a particular situation; make progress
get up	 stand after sitting, kneeling, etc; rise
geyser	 column of hot water or steam sent up from the ground at intervals, caused by the heating of water deep in the Earth
ghastly	causing horror or fear
ghost	spirit of a dead person appearing to sb who is still living
ghostwriter	[ ghostwrite: ] verb (-writes, -writing, -wrote, -written)
giant	person of human shape but enormous size and strength (often cruel and stupid)
gibber	 v. ~ (about sth/at sb) (of a monkey or a frightened person) talk quickly or make meaningless sounds
gibberish	n. meaningless sounds; unintelligible talk; nonsense
gibbet	gallows
gibe	~ (at sb/sth) jeer at or mock sb/sth; make fun of sb/sth
giddily	adv: stagger giddily round the room
giddiness	n. giddy feeling
giddy	having the feeling that everything is turning round and that one is going to fall
gift	thing given willingly without payment; present
gifted	~ having a great deal of natural ability or talent
gig	small light two-wheeled carriage pulled by one horse
gigantic	 adj. of very great size or extent; immense
gigantically	 adv: gigantically successful
giggle	 v. ~ laugh lightly in a nervous or silly way
giggly	inclined to giggle
gild	cover with gold-leaf(3) or gold-coloured paint
gilded	 adj. wealthy and of the upper-classes
gilt	gold applied to a surface in a thin layer
gimcrack	 adj. worthless; flimsy; badly made
gimmick	n. unusual, amusing, etc thing whose only purpose is to attract attention, and which has little or no value or importance of its own
ginger	hot-tasting spicy root used as a flavouring
gingerly	 adv. with great care and caution to avoid causing harm or making a noise
gingery	adj. like ginger
gingham	n. cotton or linen cloth with a striped or check pattern
girder	 n. long strong iron or steel beam used for building bridges and the framework of large buildings
girdle	cord or belt fastened round the waist to keep clothes in position
girl	female child
girlhood	 n. state or time of being a girl
girth	distance round sth of approximately cylindrical shape
gist	 n. the gist main point or general meaning
give	 v.
given	specified or stated
giver	n. one who gives
glacial	of the Ice Age
glacier	n. mass of ice, formed by snow on mountains, moving slowly down a valley
glad	~ (about sth/to do sth/that...) pleased; delighted
gladden	v. make glad or happy
glade	n. open space in a forest; clearing
gladiator	n. man trained to fight with weapons at public shows in an arena
gladiatorial	 adj. of gladiators
gladness	 n. joy; happiness ;
glamor	 [ glamour: ] charm and allure; fascination
glamorous	adj. full of glamour
glamour	attractive or exciting quality which sb/sth has, and which seems out of reach to others
glance	take a quick look
gland	n. organ that separates from the blood those substances that are to be used by or removed from the body
glandular	adj. of, like or involving a gland or glands
glare	strong unpleasant dazzling light
glaring	dazzling
glass	hard brittle, usu transparent, substance
glassful	 n. as much as a drinking-glass will hold
glaze	fit sheets or panes of glass into
glazier	n. person who fits glass into the frames of windows, etc
gleam	brief appearance of light
glean	gather
gleanable	[ glean: ] to gather (something) slowly and carefully in small pieces
gleaner	n. person who gleans
gleanings	n. gleaned items
glee	~ feeling of great delight which makes one (want to) laugh, caused by sth good experienced by oneself, or sth bad that happens to sb else
gleeful	adj. full of glee; joyous
glib	 adj. (derog ) speaking or spoken fluently and without hesitation, but not sincerely or trustworthily
glibness	 n.
glide	move along smoothly and continuously
glider	 n. light aircraft that is used for gliding
glimmer	v. send out a weak unsteady light
glimmering	 n. glimmer
glimpse	~ (at sth) short look
glint	give out small, bright flashes of light
glisten	v. ~ (esp of wet or polished surfaces) shine brightly; sparkle
glistening	 [ glisten: ] (of a wet or glossy surface) to gleam by reflecting light
glitch	 a usually minor malfunction
glitter	~ shine brightly with little sharp flashes of light; sparkle
gloaming	 n. the gloaming twilight
gloat	v. ~ express or feel selfish delight at one's own success or good fortune or sb else's failure
global	covering or affecting the whole world; world-wide
globe	small spherical model of the earth showing the continents and usu also countries, rivers, cities, etc
globose	Spherical.
globular	 adj. shaped like a globe or ball; spherical ;
gloom	near darkness
gloomy	dark or unlighted, esp in a way that is depressing or frightening
glorification	n. glorifying or being glorified
glorify	(derog ) make (sth/sb ordinary or bad) appear better or more noble than it/he really is
glorious	having, worthy of or bringing great fame or glory
glory	high fame and honour won by great achievements
gloss	brightness or shine on a smooth surface
glossary	 n. list of technical or special words explaining their meanings
glossy	 adj. smooth and shiny
glove	covering of leather, knitted wool, etc for the hand, usu with separated fingers
glow	send out light and heat withoutflame
glower	 v. ~ look in an angry or a threatening way
glowing	adj. giving enthusiastic praise
glucose	n. form of sugar found in fruit-juice, easily turned into energy by the human body
glue	 n. thick sticky liquid used for joining things
gluey	adj. sticky; like glue ;
glum	 adj. (infml ) gloomy; sad
glut	~ sth (with sth) supply sth with much more than is needed
glutinous	adj. of or like gluten; sticky
glutton	person who eats too much
gluttonous	 adj. very greedy for food
gluttony	 n. habit or practice of eating too much
gnarl	any knotty protuberance or swelling on a tree
gnarled	twisted and rough; covered with knobs
gnash	v. grind (one's teeth) together as a sign of great emotion
gnat	 n. small two-winged fly that stings; small mosquito ;
gnaw	~ sth bite sth hard continually until it is worn away
gnawing	to bite (at) or chew (upon) constantly so as to wear away little by little
gneiss	 n. coarse-grained rock of quartz, feldspar and mica
gnome	dwarf; underground spirit
gnomic	 adj. (of a remark, etc) mysteriously brief and obscure
go	 v.
goad	pointed stick for making cattle, etc move on
goaded	 [ goad: ] a sharp pointed stick for urging on cattle, etc.
goal	(in football, hockey, etc) pair of posts with a crossbar, between which the ball has to be kicked, hit, etc in order to score
goalless	 adj. with no goal scored
goat	small lively horned animal with long hair
gobble	~ sth eat sth fast, noisily and greedily (leaving nothing behind)
goblet	.
god	being or spirit that is believed to have power over nature and control over human affairs
goddess	female god, eg in Greek and Latin mythology
goer	lively or enterprising person
goggle	 v. ~ look (at sb/sth) with wide round bulging eyes
going	act of leaving a place; departure
gold	precious yellow metal used for making coins, ornaments, jewellery, etc
goldbrick	to shirk duty or responsibility
golden	of gold or like gold in value or colour
golf	 n. outdoor game in which the player tries to hit a small hard ball into a series of 9 or 18 holes using as few strokes as possible
gollop	 'golloper nou
golly	interj (used to express surprise )
gone	 pp of go
gong	metal disc that gives a resonant note when struck with a stick, used esp as a musical instrument or as a signal for meals
good	of high quality; of an acceptable standard; satisfactory
goodbye	(used when leaving or being left by sb )
goodish	quite good; not the best
good-natured	 adj. having or showing good nature
goodness	quality of being good; virtue; kindness
goods	movable property
goodwill	friendly, co-operative or helpful feeling
goose	n. web-footed water bird larger than a duck
gore	 n. (mainly in descriptions of fighting) thickened blood from a cut or wound
gorge	narrow steep-sided valley, usu with a stream or river
gorgeous	giving pleasure and satisfaction; wonderful
gorgon	any of three snake-haired sisters whose looks turned to stone anyone who saw them
gorilla	n. very large powerful African ape .
gormandize	 overeat or eat immodestly; make a pig of oneself
gory	(esp rhet ) covered with gore1
gosling	n. young goose
gospel	the Gospel (the life and teaching of Jesus as recorded in) the first four books of the New Testament
gossamer	fine silky substance of webs made by small spiders, floating in calm air or spread over grass, etc
gossip	casual talk about the affairs of other people, typically including rumour and critical comments
got	pt, pp of get
gotten	 pp of get
gouache	n. type of thick watercolour paint; method of painting pictures using this material ;
gouge	n. tool with a sharp semicircular edge for cutting grooves in wood
gourd	type of climbing or trailing plant
gourmand	 n. lover of food; glutton ;
gourmet	n. person who enjoys and is expert in the choice of fine food, wines, etc
govern	rule control or direct the public affairs of (a city, country, etc)
governance	 n. governing; government(1)
government	governing; power to govern
governmental	 adj. of or connected with government
governor	person appointed to govern a province or state (esp a colony abroad)
gown	woman's dress, esp a long one for special occasions
grab	~ sth (from sb/sth) grasp sth suddenly or roughly; snatch sth selfishly or rudely
grace	quality of simple elegant beauty
graceful	showing a pleasing beauty of form, movement or manner
gracefully	 adv.
graceless	without grace or elegance
gracious	~ (of persons and behaviour) kind, polite and generous (esp to sb who is socially inferior)
gradation	gradual change from one thing to another
grade	step, stage or degree of rank, quality, etc; level of classification
gradient	 n. degree of slope, as on a road, railway, etc
gradual	adj. taking place by a series of small changes over a long period; not sudden
gradually	adv. in a gradual way; by degrees
gradualness	n.
graduate	~ person who holds a degree (esp the first or bachelor's) from a university or polytechnic
graduated	a person who has been awarded a first degree from a university or college
graduation	graduating at a university, etc
graft	piece cut from a living plant and fixed in a cut made in another plant, to form a new growth; process or result of doing this
grain	small hard seeds of food plants such as wheat, rice, etc
graininess	 [ grainy: ] resembling, full of, or composed of grain; granular
grainy	 adj. having a noticeable grain(6)
grammar	rules for forming words and combining them into sentences
grammarian	 n. expert in grammar
grammatical	adj. of, about or in accordance with the rules of grammar
grammatically	adv: grammatically irregular
gramme	 n. = gram
gramophone	 n. = record-player (record1)
granary	building where grain is stored
grand	magnificent; splendid; big; of great importance (also in names of places, buildings, etc)
granddaughter	a daughter of one's son or daughte
grandeur	greatness; magnificence; impressiveness
grandfather	the father of one's father or mother
grandiloquence	 n.
grandiloquent	adj. using or being a pompous style of speech, full of words which ordinary people do not understand
grandiose	adj. planned on a large scale; (intended to seem) imposing
grandiosity	[ grandiose: ] n. pretentiously grand or stately
grandly	* gesture grandly
grandmother	the mother of one's father or mother
grandson	 n. a son of one's son or daughter'
grandstand	 n. large building with rows of seats for spectators at races, sports meetings, etc
granite	n. hard, usu grey, stone used for building
grant	agree to give or allow (what is asked for)
grantee	The person to whom property is transferred by deed.
granular	like, containing or consisting of small hard pieces
granulate	v. form into grains or have a granular surface or texture
granule	n. small hard piece; small grain
grape	green or purple berry growing in clusters on vines, used for making wine or eaten as fruit
graph	n. (diagram consisting of a) line or lines (often curved) showing the variation of two quantities, eg the temperature at each hour
graphic	of visual symbols
graphically	by writing or diagrams
graphite	 n. soft black substance used in making lead pencils, in lubrication, and for slowing down neutrons in atomic reactors
grapple	seize (an opponent) firmly and try to fight
grasp	seize (sb/sth) firmly with hand(s), finger(s), teeth, etc
grasping	 adj. greedy for money, possessions, etc; avaricious
grass	various kinds of common wild low-growing plants of which the thin green leaves and stalks are eaten by cattle, horses, sheep, etc
grasshopper	jumping insect that makes a shrill chirping noise
grassland	n. land covered with grass, esp as used for grazing
grassy	 adj. covered with grass
grate	n. fireplace
grateful	~ (for sth); ~ (that...) feeling or showing appreciation for sth good done to one, for sth fortunate that happens, etc; thankful
gratefully	 adv. in a thankful manner
gratification	gratifying or being gratified; state of being pleased or satisfied
gratify	give pleasure or satisfaction to (sb)
grating	adj. irritating
gratis	 adv. without payment; free
gratitude	n. ~ (for sth) being grateful; thankfulness
gratuitous	 adj. done, given or acting unnecessarily, purposely and without good reason
gratuitousness	 n.
gratuity	money given to sb who has done one a service; tip ;
grave	(fml ) (of situations, etc) needing careful consideration; serious
gravel	 n. small stones, as used to make the surface of roads and paths
gravely	adv. seriously
graven	 adj. ~ (arch ) carved
gravitation	n. force of attraction; gravity
gravitational	adj. a gravitational field
gravity	force that attracts objects in space towards each other, and on the earth pulls them towards the centre of the planet, so that things fall to the ground when dropped
gray	 adj. n, v = grey
graze	~ (of cattle, sheep, etc) eat growing grass
grazing	the vegetation on pastures that is available for livestock to feed upon
grease	animal fat that has been softened by cooking or heating
great	well above average in size, extent or quantity
greatly	adv. much; by much
greed	excessive desire for food, esp when one is not hungry
greedy	 adj. ~ (for sth) filled with greed or desire
Greek	adj. of Greece or its people or language
green	of the colour between blue and yellow in the spectrum; of the colour of growing grass, and the leaves of most plants and trees
greengrocer	n. shopkeeper selling vegetables and fruit
greenhorn	n. inexperienced and easily deceived person
greenhouse	 n. building with sides and roof of glass, used for growing plants that need protection from the weather
greenish	 adj. somewhat green
greet	~ sb (with sth) give a conventional sign or word of welcome or pleasure when meeting sb or receiving a (guest)
greeting	first words used on seeing sb or in writing to sb; expression or act with which sb is greeted
gregarious	liking to be with other people
gregariousness	 n.
grenade	n. small bomb thrown by hand or fired from a rifle
grenadier	n. soldier who threw grenades; (now) soldier in the Grenadiers (or Grenadier Guards), a British infantry regiment ;
grew	 pt of grow
grey	of the colour between black and white; coloured like ashes, slate, lead, etc
greyish	adj. somewhat grey
grid	framework of crossing or parallel metal or wooden bars; grating
griddle	n. circular iron plate heated for cooking flat cakes
gridiron	framework of metal bars used for cooking meat or fish over an open fire
grief	~ deep or violent sorrow
grievance	n. ~ real or imagined cause for complaint or protest (used esp with the vs shown)
grieve	cause great sorrow to (sb)
grievous	causing grief or suffering
grill	device on a cooker that directs heat downwards for cooking meat, toasting bread, etc
grille	 n. protective screen of metal bars or wires
grim	very serious and unsmiling in appearance
grimace	n. ugly twisted expression (on the face), expressing pain, disgust, etc or intended to cause laughter
grimly	 adv: grimly determined
grimy	adj. covered with grime
grin	~ (at sb) smile broadly, so as to show the teeth, expressing amusement, foolish satisfaction, contempt, etc
grind	v. ~ sth (down/up) (to/into sth) crush sth to very small pieces or to powder between millstones, the teeth, etc or using an electrical or a mechanical apparatus
grindstone	stone shaped like a wheel, turned on an axle, against which one holds knives or other tools to sharpen them
grip	take and keep a firm hold of (sth/sb)
gripe	v. feel or cause sudden sharp pain in the stomach or intestines
gripping	 adj. exciting; holding the attention
grisly	 adj. causing horror or terror; ghastly
gristle	n. tough unappetizing tissue in meat
grit	tiny hard bits of stone, sand, etc
groan	~ ~ (with sth) make a deep sad sound when in pain, or to express despair, disapproval or distress
grocer	 n. shopkeeper who sells food in packets, tins or bottles and general small household goods
groceries	n. things sold by a grocer
grocery	grocer's trade
groggy	 adj. weak and dizzy (after illness, shock, lack of sleep, etc); unsteady
groom	person in charge of horses
groove	long narrow cut or depression in the surface of hard material
grope	~ (for/after sth) feel or search about (for sth) as one does in the dark
gropingly	adv. in the manner of sb who gropes
gross	n. (esp commerce ) twelve dozen
grotesque	strangely distorted so as to arouse fear or laughter; fantastic
grotto	 n. cave, esp one made artificially as a garden shelter
grouch	 v. ~ (derog ) complain
grouchy	adj. sullenly discontented
ground	the ground solid surface of the earth
grounded	 [ grind: ] to reduce or be reduced to small particles by pounding or abrading
groundless	 adj. without foundationor good reason
group	number of people or things gathered, placed or acting together, or naturally associated
grouse	 n. small dark bird of northern hilly areas, shot for sport and food
grove	n. group of trees; small wood
grovel	~ (to/before sb) lie or crawl with the face downwards in a show of humility or fear
grow	 v. [La, I] increase in size or quantity; become greater
grower	person who grows things
growl	~ (of animals or thunder) make a low threatening sound
grown	adj. adult; mature
grown-up	 n. adult person
growth	(process of) growing; development
grudge	 v. ~ sth feel resentful about sth; do or give sth very unwillingly
grudging	 adj. unwilling; reluctant
grudgingly	 adv: The boss grudgingly raised my salary
gruel	n. simple dish made of oatmeal, etc boiled in milk or water
grueling	 exhausting
gruelling	adj. severe; exhausting
gruesome	 adj. filling one with horror or disgust; frightful
gruff	adj. rough; surly
grumble	v. ~ (about/at/over sth) complain or protest in a bad-tempered way
grumbler	 n. person who grumbles
grumpy	 adj. (infml ) bad-tempered; surly ;
grunt	(of animals, esp pigs) make a low rough sound from deep in the throat ,
guarantee	~ (against sth) promise (usu in writing) that certain conditions agreed to in a transaction will be fulfilled
guard	state of watchfulness against attack, danger or surprise
guarded	protected or kept under surveillance
guardian	one who guards or protects sth
guardianship	 n. position or office of a guardian
gudgeon	n. small freshwater fish used as bait
guess	~ (at sth) give an answer, form an opinion or make a statement about (sth) without calculating or measuring and without definite knowledge
guest	person invited to visit one's house or being entertained at one's expense
guffaw	 v. give a noisy laugh
guidance	 n. guiding or being guided; leadership; direction
guide	person who shows others the way, esp a person employed to point out interesting sights on a journey or visit
guideline	a principle put forward to set standards or determine a course of actio
guile	n. deceit; cunning
guileless	without deceit
guilelessness	[ guileless: ] adj. free from guile; ingenuous
guillotine	machine of French origin for cutting people's heads off, consisting of a heavy blade which slides in grooves and is dropped from a height
guilt	condition or fact of having done wrong
guiltily	 adv: She looked up guiltily as I came in.
guilty	~ (of sth) (esp law ) having done wrong; being to blame (for sth)
guinea	 n. (gold coin worth the) sum of
guise	style of dress
guitar	 n. six-stringed musical instrument, plucked with the fingers or a plectrum
guitarist	n. guitar player
gulch	n. deep narrow rocky valley
gulf	part of the sea almost surrounded by land
gull	 n. any of several types of large long-winged sea-bird with usu white and grey or black feathers .
gulled	 [ gull: ] a person who is easily fooled or cheated
gullibility	n.
gullible	 adj. willing to believe anything or anyone; easily deceived
gully	a trench which was orig. worn in the earth by running water and through which water often runs after rains
gulp	~ sth swallow (food or drink) quickly or greedily
gum	n. firm pink flesh at the base of the teeth
gumption	 n. common sense and initiative; qualities likely to bring success
gun	any kind of firearm that fires bullets or shells from a metal tube
gunfire	n. firing of a gun or guns
gunpowder	n. explosive powder used in guns, fireworks, blasting, etc
guru	Hindu spiritual leader
gush	~ (from sth) flow or pour out suddenly in great quantities
gusher	 n. oil-well with a strong natural flow
gust	 n. sudden violent rush of wind
gustation	the faculty of taste
gustatory	affecting the sense of taste
gustily	[ gusty: ] blowing or occurring in gusts or characterized by blustery weather
gusto	n. enthusiastic vigour in doing sth
gusty	adj. with wind blowing in gusts
gutless	adj. cowardly
gutter	long metal or plastic channel fixed under the edge of a roof to carry away rain-water
guttural	 adj. (seeming to be) produced in the throat
guy	n. rope or chain used to keep sth steady or secured, eg to hold a tent in place
guzzle	 v. ~ ~ sth (down/up) (infml ) eat or drink sth greedily
guzzler	n. person who guzzles
gym	gymnasium
gymnasium	n. room or hall with apparatus for physical exercise
gymnastic	adj. of physical exercises and training
gynecocracy	Female supremacy.
gynecoid	 [ gynaecoid: ] adj. resembling, relating to, or like a woman
gynecology	 The science that treats of the functions and diseases peculiar to women.
gyrate	 v. move around in circles or spirals; revolve ;
gyroscope	n. device containing a wheel which, when its spins fast, always maintains the same orientation regardless of any movement of the supporting structure, often used in ships' stabilizers
gyroscopic	 adj. a gyroscopic compass
habit	thing that a person does often and almost without thinking, esp sth that is hard to stop doing
habitable	adj. suitable for living in
habitant	 Dweller.
habitat	n. natural environment of an animal or a plant; home
habitual	regular; usual
habitually	 adv. usually; regularly
habituate	v. ~ sb/oneself to sth accustom sb/oneself to sth
habituation	the act or process of habituating
habitude	 Customary relation or association.
hacienda	 n. large landed estate with a house
hack	~ at sth/sb strike heavy cutting blows at sth/sb
hackle	 any of the long slender feathers on the necks of poultry and other birds
hackles	long feathers on the neck of the domestic cock, etc or hairs on the neck of a dog
hackney	To make stale or trite by repetition.
hackneyed	adj. used so often that it has become trite and dull
had	pt, pp of have
haemophilia	n. disease, usu inherited, that causes the sufferer to bleed severely from even a slight injury, because the blood fails to clot normally
haemorrhage	bleeding
haemostat	a surgical instrument that stops bleeding by compression of a blood vessel
haft	 n. handle of an axe, a knife, etc
haggard	adj. looking tired and unhappy, esp from worry, lack of sleep, etc
haggle	 v. ~ (over/about sth) argue (esp about the price, etc when agreeing upon the terms of a sale or other transaction)
hail	frozen rain falling in a shower
hair	one of the fine thread-like strands that grow from the skin of people and animals
hairbreadth	Extremely close
haircut	cutting the hair
hairdo	-dos)
hairdresser	n. person whose business is to arrange and cut hair
hairy	of or like hair
halcyon	adj. peaceful and happy
hale	 adj. hale and `hearty (esp of an old person) strong and healthy
half	 n. either of two equal or corresponding parts into which a thing is divided
half-baked	 adj. stupid; foolish
hall	space or passage on the inside of the main entrance or front door of a building
hallmark	mark used for indicating the standard of gold, silver and platinum on articles made of these metals
hallow	 v. make holy; honour as holy
hallowed	 set apart as sacred
hallucinate	v. imagine one is seeing or hearing sth when no such thing is present
hallucination	illusion of seeing or hearing sth when no such thing is actually present
hallucinatory	adj. of or causing hallucinations
hallway	= hall 1
halo	(in paintings, etc) circle of light shown round or above the head of a sacred figure ,
halt	temporary stop; interruption of progress
halting	adj. slow and hesitant, as if lacking in confidence
haltingly	adv: speak haltingly
halve	divide into two equal parts
halves	 pl of half1
ham	upper part of a pig's leg, salted and dried or smoked for food
hamburger	flat round cake of minced beef, usu fried and eaten with onions, often in a bread roll
ham-handed	 lacking dexterity or grace:HEAVY-HANDED
hamlet	 n. small village, esp one without a church
hammer	tool with a heavy metal head at right angles to the handle, used for breaking things, driving nails in, etc
hamper	large basket with a hinged lid, esp one containing food, wine, etc
hampered	 [ hamper: ] vt. to prevent the progress or free movement
hamstring	any of the five tendons at the back of the human knee
hand	end part of the human arm below the wrist
handbag	.
handbook	 n. small book giving useful facts; guidebook
handcuff	 vt. to put handcuffs on (a person); manacle
handcuffs	n. pair of metal rings joined by a chain, for fastening round the wrists of prisoners
handful	~ (of sth) as much or as many as can be held in one hand
handicap	thing that makes progress or success difficult
handily	adv: We're handily placed for the shopping centre.
handkerchief	 n. (usu square) piece of cloth or paper tissue for blowing the nose into, wiping the face, etc
handle	 ,
handshake	shaking of sb's hand with one's own, as a greeting, etc
handsome	(of men) good-looking
handsomely	 adv: She was handsomely rewarded for her efforts
handwriting	writing with a pen, pencil, etc
handwritten	adj. written by hand
handy	(of gadgets, etc) convenient to handle or use; useful
handyman	 n. person who is clever at doing household repairs, etc or who is employed to do odd jobs
hang	be supported, or support (sth) from above, esp so that the lower end is free
hangar	 n. large shed in which aircraft are kept
hangdog	adj. sly and ashamed, as if guilty
hanger	curved piece of wood, plastic or wire with a hook, used for hanging up a garment
hanger-on	n. (usu derog ) person who tries to become or appear friendly with others, esp in the hope of personal gain
hanging	death by hanging
hangover	unpleasant after-effects of drinking too much alcohol
hanker	 v. ~ after/for sth/to do sth have a strong desire for sth
hankering	n. ~ strong desire
hap	chance; luck
haphazard	adj. without plan or order; random
hapless	adj. unlucky; unfortunate
happen	occur (by chance or otherwise); take place
happening	n. (usu pl ) thing that happens; event; occurrence
happiness	n.
happy	~ (about/in/with sth/sb) feeling or expressing pleasure, contentment,satisfaction, etc
happy-go-lucky	 adj. accepting events cheerfully as they happen; carefree
harangue	 n. long, loud, serious and usu angry speech
harass	trouble and annoy continually
harassment	 n. harassing or being harassed
harbinger	n. ~ (rhet ) person or thing that announces or shows that sb/sth is coming
harbor	 to give shelter or refuge to
harbour	place of shelter for ships
hard	not soft or yielding to the touch or easily cut; solid; firm
hard-bitten	seasoned or steeled by difficult experience:TOUGH
harden	(cause sth to) become hard, strong, unyielding, etc
hardheaded	 adj. stubborn; willful; realistic; pragmatic.
hard-hearted	 adj. lacking in feeling or sympathy; unkind ;
hardihood	the trait of being willing to undertake things that involve risk or danger
hardly	only just; scarcely
hardness	 the quality or condition of being hard
hard-nosed	 adj. tough and unyielding
hardship	severe suffering or discomfort; privation
hardware	 ;
hard-working	 adj. working with care and energy
hardy	able to endure cold or difficult conditions; tough, robust
hare	fast-running mammal that lives in fields, like a rabbit but larger, with long ears and a divided upper lip
harebrained	adj. foolish; flighty
harem	separate part of a traditional Muslim house in which the women live
harm	damage; injury
harmful	adj. ~ causingharm
harmless	not able or likely to cause harm
harmonic	 n. higher note produced (eg by the vibration of a string) when a note is played that has a fixed relation to it
harmonious	free from disagreement or ill feeling
harmonize	to make or become harmonious
harmony	agreement
harness	equipment consisting of leather straps and saddle and metal fittings by which a horse is controlled and fastened to the cart, plough, etc that it pulls
harp	 n. large upright musical instrument with strings stretched on a triangular frame and played with the fingers .
harping	[ harp: ] a large triangular plucked stringed instrument consisting of a soundboard connected to an upright pillar by means of a curved crossbar from which the strings extend downwards.
harpist	n. person who plays the harp
harpoon	n. missile like a spear with a rope attached, thrown by hand or fired from a gun, used for catching whales, etc ,
harpsichord	n. musical instrument similar to a piano, but with strings that are plucked mechanically ,
harridan	 n. bad-tempered old woman
harrow	 n. heavy frame with metal spikes or discs dragged over ploughed land to break up lumps of earth, cover seeds, etc
harrowing	[ harrow: ] any of various implements used to level the ground, stir the soil, break up clods, destroy weeds, etc., in soil
harry	annoy (sb) with repeated requests, questions, etc; harass
harsh	adj. ~ (to sb/sth) unpleasantly rough or sharp, esp to the senses
harshly	adv: be harshly treated
harvest	cutting and gathering of grain and other food crops
hash	cooked meat cut into small pieces and recooked
hassle	 n. difficulty; struggle
haste	quickness of movement; hurry
hasten	move or act with speed; hurry
hastily	adv.
hasty	adj. said, made or done quickly or too quickly; hurried
hat	covering made to fit the head, usu with a brim, worn out of doors
hatch	opening in a door, floor or ceiling
hatchery	-eries)
hatchet	light short-handled axe .
hate	feel hatred towards (sb/sth)
hateful	adj. ~ causing sb to feel hatred or strong dislike; detestable; very unpleasant
hatless	adj. not wearing a hat
hatred	 n. ~ very strong dislike; hate
haughtiness	n. Pride; arrogance.
haughty	adj. (of a person or his manner) arrogant while despising others; proud and disdainful
haul	pull or drag with effort or force
haunt	visit (a place) regularly
haunting	 (of memories) poignant or persistent
hauteur	n. haughtiness
have	 6.26.3. aux v
haven	place of safety or rest; refuge
haversack	n. strong bag carried on the back or over the shoulder
havoc	widespread damage; great destruction
hawk	strong swift bird of prey withsharp eyesight
hawker	 n. person who hawks goods
hawkish	adj. favouring aggressive policies rather than negotiation and compromise
hawser	 n. thick heavy rope or thin steel cable, used for mooring or towing a ship ,
hawthorn	 n. thorny shrub or tree with white, red or pink blossom and small dark red berries
hay	grass cut and dried for use as animal food
hazard	~ (thing that can cause) danger; risk
hazardous	adj. dangerous; risky
hazily	 adv: remember sth hazily
hazy	misty
he	 pers pron. male person or animal mentioned earlier or being observed now
head	part of the body containing the eyes, nose, mouth and brain
headache	continuous pain in the head
headfirst	with the head foremost; headlong
heading	n. word or words put at the top of a page, section of a book, etc as a title
headlight	n. lamp at the front of a motor vehicle or railway engine
headline	line of words printed in large type at the top of a page, esp in a newspaper
headlong	with the head first
headmaster	 fem headmistress
headquarter	to place in or establish as headquarter
headquarters	 n. place from which an organization is controlled
headstrong	 adj. obstinately determined to do things in one's own way without listening to others; self-willed ;
headway	n. progress, esp in difficult circumstances
heady	(of alcoholic drinks) likely to make people drunk quickly; potent
heal	~ (cause sth to) become healthy again
healing	[ heal: ] to restore or be restored to health
health	condition of a person's body or mind
healthful	adj. good for the health
healthfulness	[ healthful: ] adj. a less common word for: healthy [1--3]
healthy	having good health; well and able to resist disease
heap	number of things or mass of material lying piled up
hear	 v. perceive (sounds) with the ears
hearer	 n. person who hears sth, esp a member of an audience
hearing	ability to hear; sensewith which sound is perceived
hearken	v. ~ (arch ) listen
hearsay	n. things one has heard another person or other people say, which may or may not be true; rumour
heart	hollow muscular organ that pumps blood through the body
hearten	v. make feel cheerful and encouraged
heartening	 adj. heartening news
heartfelt	adj. deeply felt; sincere
hearth	floor of a fireplace
heartily	with obvious enjoyment and enthusiasm; vigorously
heartiness	 n.
heartrending	 causing intense sorrow or distress
hearty	showing warm and friendly feelings; enthusiastic
heat	high temperature; hotness
heater	 n. device for supplying warmth to a room or for heating water
heath	area of flat uncultivated land, esp one covered with shrubs; moorland ;
heathen	person who does not believe in any of the world's chief religions, esp one who is neither Christian, Muslim nor Jew; pagan
heathenish	 adj. of or like heathens; barbarous ;
heating	n. means or system of supplying heat
heave	lift or drag (sth heavy) with great effort
heaven	place believed to be the home of God and the angels and of good people after death
heavily	adv. very heavy
heavy	having weight (esp great weight); difficult to lift or move
heavy-handed	clumsy; awkward
heavy-handedness n.
	heavy-handedness n.
hecatomb	 a great sacrifice; an ancient greek or roman sacrifice of 100 oxen
heckle	 v. interrupt and harass at a public meeting with troublesome questions and rude remarks
heckler	n.
hectic	 adj. with much confused activity and excitement; very busy
hector	 v. try to frighten by bullying
hedge	row of bushes or shrubs planted close together and forming a boundary for a field, garden, etc
hedgehog	 n. small insect-eating animal covered with stiff spines, that rolls itself up into a ball to defend itself .
hedonic	of, relating to, or characterized by pleasure
hedonism	 n. belief that pleasure should be the main aim in life
hedonist	 n. believer in hedonism
hedonistic	 (adj.) living for pleasure
heed	 v. pay attention to (advice, etc); take notice of (sth)
heedless	 not noticing; disregarding
heedlessness	 [ heedless: ] adj. taking little or no notice; careless or thoughtless
heel	back part of the human foot .
heftily	adv: a heftily-built fellow
hefty	(of a person) big and strong
hegemony	 n. leadership, esp by one state in a group of states
hegira	 n. the Hegira Muhammad's flight from Mecca to Medina in AD 622, from which date the Muslim era is reckoned 622
heifer	 n. young cow, esp one that has not yet had a calf
height	measurement from the bottom to the top of a thing or from head to foot of a standing person
heighten	 v. becomehigher or more intense
heinous	adj. very wicked
heir	 n. ~ person with the legal right to receive property, etc when the owner dies
heiress	n. female heir, esp one who inherits great wealth
heirloom	 n. object that has been handed down in a family for several generations
hejira	 = hegira
held	 pt, pp of hold
helical	adj. like a helix
helicopter	 n. type of aircraft with horizontal revolving blades or rotors, able to take off and land vertically and remain stationary in the air
heliotrope	plant with small sweet-smelling purple flowers
helium	 n. chemical element, a light colourless gas that does not burn, used in airships .
hell	place believed in some religions to be the home of devils and of wicked people after death
hello	= hallo
helm	handle or wheel for moving the rudder of a ship or boat
helmet	 n. protective head-covering such as that worn by firemen, miners, motor-cyclists, policemen and sportsmen, and by soldiers when they arefighting .
helmeted	 adj. wearing or provided with a helmet
helmsman	 n. person who steers a ship
helot	(medieval europe) a person who is bound to the land and owned by the feudal lord
help	~ (with sth) be of use or service to (sb); make it easier for (sb) to do sth; aid; assist
helper	 n. person who helps
helpful	adj. giving help; useful
helping	n. portion of food at a meal
helpless	unable to act without help; needing the help of others
helve	n. handle of a weapon or tool, esp an axe
hem	n. edge of a piece of cloth which has been turned under and sewn or fixed down
hemisphere	half a sphere
hemispherical	adj. shaped like a hemisphere
hemlock	poisonous plant with small white flowers
hemophilia	 [ haemophilia: ] an inheritable disease, usually affecting only males but transmitted by women to their male children, characterized by loss or impairment of the normal clotting ability of blood so that a minor wound may result in fatal bleeding
hemorrhage	 Discharge of blood from a ruptured or wounded blood-vessel.
hen	female of the common domestic fowl .
hence	from this time
henceforth	 adv. from this time on; in future
henchman	 n. faithful follower or political supporter who always obeys the orders of his leader
henpeck	To worry or harass by ill temper and petty annoyances.
henpecked	adj. (of a husband) nagged by a fussy and domineering wife
hepatic	of or relating to the liver
hepatitis	n. inflammation of the liver
heptagon	 n. geometric figure with seven sides and angles
heptarchy	A group of seven governments.
her	pers pron. female person or animal mentioned earlier or being observed now
herald	person who made important announcements and carried messages from a ruler
herb	 n. plant with a soft stem that dies down to the ground after flowering
herbaceous	 adj. of or like herbs
herbarium	A collection of dried plants scientifically arranged for study.
herbicide	n. substance that is poisonous to plants, used to destroy weeds, etc
herbivorous	adj. feeding on plants
Herculean	adj. having or needing very great strength
herd	number of animals, esp cattle, feeding or staying together
herdsman	 n. person who looks after a herd of animals
here	(with a v or after a prep ) in, at or to this position or place
hereafter	(in legal documents, etc) from now on; following this ,
hereditary	passed on from parent to child, or from one generation to following generations
heredity	 n. passing on of physical or mental characteristics from parents to children
heresy	belief or opinion that is contrary to what is generally accepted, esp in religion
heretic	n. person who is guilty of heresy or who supports a heresy
heretical	adj. of heresy or heretics
heretofore	 adv. until now; formerly ;
heritage	things such as works of art, cultural achievements and folklore that have been passed on from earlier generations
hermetic	 adj. tightly closed so that air cannot escape or enter; completely airtight ;
hermetically	 adv: hermetically sealed containers
hermit	 n. person who has withdrawn from society and lives completely alone; recluse ;
hermitage	n. place where a hermit or a group of hermits lives
hernia	 n. rupture, esp one caused by a part of the bowel being pushed through a weak point of the muscle wall of the abdomen
hero	person who is admired by many for his noble qualities or his bravery
heroic	having the characteristics of a hero; very brave
heroics	talk or behaviour that is excessively dramatic
heroine	n. female hero
heroism	n. brave and noble conduct; courage
herpetologist	one that a branch of zoology dealing with reptiles and amphibians
herring	N Atlantic fish, usu swimming in very large shoals, used for food
hers	 possess pron of or belonging to her
herself	)
hesitance	b:RELUCTANCE
hesitancy	n. state or quality of being hesitant
hesitant	 adj. tending to be slow inspeaking or acting because of uncertainty or unwillingness
hesitate	~ be slow to speak or act because one feels uncertain or unwilling; pause in doubt
hesitation	state of hesitating
heterodox	adj. not conforming with accepted standards or beliefs
heterodoxy	 any opinions or doctrines at variance with the official or orthodox position ; the quality of being unorthodox
heterogeneity	Unlikeness of constituent parts.
heterogeneous	adj. made up of different kinds; varied in composition
heteromorphic	Deviating from the normal form or standard type.
heterosexual	 adj. feeling sexually attracted to people of the opposite sex
hew	v. chop or cut (sth/sb) with an axe, sword, etc
hexagon	n. geometric figure with six sides and angles
hexapod	Having six feet.
hey	(used to call attention or express surprise or inquiry )
heyday	 n. time of greatest success, prosperity, power, etc
hi	(esp US) = hallo
hiatus	gap in a series or sequence, making it incomplete; break in continuity ;
hibernal	 wintry
hibernate	v. spend the winter in a state like deep sleep
hibernation	n.
hibernator	 [ hibernate: ] (of some mammals, reptiles, and amphibians) to pass the winter in a dormant condition with metabolism greatly slowed down
Hibernian	Pertaining to Ireland, or its people.
hibiscus	 n. plant or shrub with large brightly coloured flowers, grown esp in tropical countries
hide	prevent (sth/sb/oneself) from being seen; put or keep out of sight
hidebound	adj. not willing to consider new ideas, methods, etc; too conventional and narrow-minded
hideous	adj. filling the mind with horror; very ugly; frightful
hie	v. ~ oneself to sth (arch or joc ) go quickly
hierarchical	 adj. of or arranged in a hierarchy
hierarchy	n. system with grades of authority or status from the lowest to the highest
hieroglyph	picture or symbol of an object, representing a word, syllable or sound, as used in ancient Egyptian and other writing
hieroglyphic	 adj. of or written in hieroglyphs
high	(of things) extending far upwards; having a relatively big distance from the base to the top
highbrow	 n. person who has or is thought to have superior intellectual and cultural tastes
high-flown	 adj. extravagantly grand and pretentious
high-handed	adj. using power or authority without considering the opinions and wishes of others
highland	of or in mountainous regions
highlight	best, most interesting or most exciting part of something
highly	to an unusually great extent; very
high-minded	adj. having or showing a noble and virtuous character
high-rise	adj. very tall, with many storeys
highway	main public road
hijack	seize control of in order to force it to go to a new destination, to take its passengers hostage or to steal its cargo
hike	long walk, esp in the country, taken for pleasure or exercise
hilarious	adj. extremelyamusing; very funny
hilarity	 n. loud laughter; great amusement
hill	natural elevation on the earth's surface, not as high or rugged as a mountain
hillbilly	(of music) characteristic of rural life ; a disparaging term for an unsophisticated person
hillock	n. small hill; mound ;
hillside	 n. sloping side of a hill
hilt	.
him	pers pron. male person or animal mentioned earlier or being observed now
himself	(reflex ) (used when the male doer of an action is also affected by it )
hind	situated at the back
hinder	;
hindmost	furthest behind
hindrance	~ thing or person that hinders
hindsight	n. wisdom about an event after it has occurred
hinge	n. piece of metal, etc on which a lid, door, or gate turns or swings as it opens and closes
hint	subtle way of indicating to sb what one is thinking or what one wants; indirect suggestion
hinterland	area lying inland from the coast or away from a river
hinterlands	[ hinterland: ] land lying behind something, esp. a coast or the shore of a river
hip	n. part on either side of the body below the waist where the bone of a person's leg is joined to the trunk
hippopotamus	 n. (also hippo) large African river animal with short legs and thick dark skin .
hipster	an enthusiast of modern jazz
hire	~ sth/sb obtain the use of sth or the services of sb temporarily and esp for a short period of time, in return for payment
hireling	 n. person whose services may be hired
hirsute	adj. (esp of a man) covered with hair; hairy; shaggy
his	possess det of or belonging to a male person or animal mentioned earlier
Hispanic	of Spain and Portugal
hiss	~ make a sound like that of a long `s'
histocompatibility the degree of similarity between the histocompatibility antigens of two individuals. Histocompatibility determines whether an organ transplant will be tolerated
	histocompatibility the degree of similarity between the histocompatibility antigens of two individuals. Histocompatibility determines whether an organ transplant will be tolerated
histology	n. scientific study of animal and plant tissues
historian	n. person who studies or writes about history
historic	 adj. famous or important in history
historical	concerning past events
history	study of past events, esp the political, social and economic development of a country, a continent or the world
histrionic	very theatrical in manner; excessively dramatic; affected
histrionically	 adv. (usu derog )
histrionics	n. theatrical manners or behaviour, esp when exaggerated in order to impress others
hit	 ~ sb/sth (with sth) strike sb/sth with a blow, missile, etc
hitch	get in other people's cars as a way of travelling
hitherto	 adv. until now
hive	(also `beehive) box or other container for bees to live in
hoard	n. carefully collected and guarded store of money, food or other treasured objects
hoarse	 adj. (of the voice) sounding rough and harsh
hoary	(also hoar) (esp of hair) grey or white with age
hoax	 n. mischievous trick played on sb for a joke
hobble	walk with difficulty because the feet or legs hurt or are disabled; walk lamely; limp
hobby	n. favourite activity that a person does for pleasure and not as his regular business
hobbyist	 [ hobby: ] an activity pursued in spare time for pleasure or relaxation
hobgoblin	n. mischievous little creature; ugly and evil spirit; goblin
hodgepodge	 = hotchpotch
hoe	n. long-handled tool with a blade, used for loosening the soil and removing weeds
hogshead	large barrel for beer
hoist	raise by means of ropes, special apparatus, etc
hold	take and keep or support (sb/sth) in one's arms, hands, teeth, etc
holder	person who holds sth; person who has sth at his disposal or in his possession
hole	sunken or hollow place in a solid mass or surface; cavity
holiday	day of rest, recreation or festivity, when no work is done
hollow	having a hole or empty space inside; not solid
holly	n. evergreen shrub with hard shiny sharp-pointed leaves and, in winter, red berries ,
holocaust	n. large-scale destruction, esp by fire; great loss of human life
hologram	 n. photographic representation that gives a three-dimensional image when suitably lit
holograph	n. document that is handwritten by the author
holster	n. leather case for a pistol, usu fixed to a belt or saddle .
holy	associated with God or with religion; of God
homage	 n. things said or done to show great respect; tribute to a person or his qualities (used esp with the vs shown)
home	place where one lives, esp with one's family
homeless	 adj. having no home
homely	esp Brit) simple and plain
homeopath	ns = homoeopath (homoeopathy)
homeopathic	[ homeopathy: ] adj. "homeo'pathically, "homoeo'pathically adverb(ial)
homeopathy	 ns = homoeopathy
homeostasis	tendency of a system to maintain relative stability
homesick	 adj. sad because one is away from home
homesickness	 n.
homespun	made of yarn spun at home
homework	work that a pupil is required to do away from school
homiletics	 the branch of theology that deals with sermons and homilies ; the art of preaching
homily	long and boring talk from sb on the correct way to behave, etc
hominid	any primate of the family Hominidae, which includes modern man (Homo sapiens) and the extinct precursors of man
homogeneity	n. quality of being alike
homogeneous	adj. formed of parts that are all of the same type
homogenization	 [ homogenize: ] vt. to break up the fat globules in (milk or cream) so that they are evenly distributed
homogenize	 to blend (diverse elements) into a uniform mixture
homograph	n. word spelt like another word but with a different meaning or pronunciation
homologous	 Identical in nature, make-up, or relation.
homonym	n. word spelt and pronounced like another word but with a different meaning
homophone	n. word pronounced like another word but with a different meaning or spelling , some, sum ; knew, new
hone	 n. stone used for sharpening the cutting edges of tools, etc
honed	[ hone: ] a fine whetstone, esp. for sharpening razors
honest	(of a person) telling the truth; not cheating or stealing
honesty	quality of being honest; truthfulness ;
honey	sweet sticky yellowish substance made by bees from nectar
honeycomb	wax structure of six-sided cells made by bees for holding their honey and eggs
honeymoon	holiday taken by a newly married couple
honk	cry of the wild goose
honor	= honour
honorable	= honourable
honorarium	 n. voluntary payment made for professional services for which a fee is not normally paid or required by law
honour	source of pride and pleasure; privilege
honourable	deserving, bringing or showing honour
honours	observances of respect
hood	covering for the head and neck, often fastened to a coat, etc, so that it can hang down at the back, or be detached, when not in use ,
hoodwink	 v. ~ sb deceive sb; trick sb
hoof	 n. horny part of the foot of a horse, an ox or a deer
hook	curved or bent piece of wire, plastic, etc for catching hold of sth or for hanging sth on
hooked	 adj. curved like a hook
hooligan	 n. disorderly and noisy young person who often behaves in a violent and destructive way; young thug or ruffian
hoop	circular band of wood, metal, etc
hooves	 pl of hoof
hop	(of a person) move by jumping on one foot
hope	~ (of doing sth/that...) desire for sth to happen, combined with the expectation that it will
hopeful	~ ~ (that...) (of a person) having hope
hopeless	most unlikely to improve, succeed, be settled, etc; causing despair
horde	n. very large group (esp of people); huge crowd; throng
horizon	the horizon the line at which the earth and sky appear to meet
horizontal	 parallel to the plane of the horizon; level; flat
hormonal	 adj. of a hormone or hormones
hormone	a chemical substance produced in an endocrine gland and transported in the blood to a certain tissue, on which it exerts a specific effect
horn	 .
horned	 adj. having horns, esp of the specified type
hornless	 adj. without horns
hornlike	similar to a hornin shape
horology	 the art of designing and making clocks
horoscope	forecast of a person's future based on a diagram showing the relative positions of the planets, etc at a particular time, eg the time of his birth
horrendous	 adj. horrifying; horrific
horrific	causing horror; horrifying
horrifically	 adv. (infml )
horrify	v. fill (sb) with horror; shock greatly
horror	feeling of intense fear or dismay; terror
hors	 -d' oeuvre n. food served at the beginning of a meal as an appetizer
horse	large four-legged animal with a flowing mane and tail, used for riding on or to carry loads, pull carts, etc .
horsefly	-flies)
horsepower	hp) unit for measuring the power of an engine, etc (550 foot-pounds per second, about 750 watts) , 15501, 750
hortative	giving exhortation:ADVISORY
hortatory	encouraging; exhortative
horticultural	adj. a horticultural show, society, expert
horticulture	 n. art of growing flowers, fruit and vegetables; gardening ;
horticulturist	 personwho practises horticulture; skilled gardener ;
hose	 n. flexible tube made of rubber, plastic or canvas and used for directing water onto fires, gardens, etc
hosepipe	 a flexible pipe for conveying a liquid or gas
hosiery	n. stockings, socks and knitted or woven underwear
hospitable	 adj. ~ (of a person) pleased to welcome and entertain guests; giving hospitality
hospital	 n. institution providing medical and surgical treatment and nursing care for ill or injured people
hospitality	n. friendly and generous reception and entertainment of guests or strangers, esp in one's own home
host	~ of sb/sth large number of people or things
hostage	person held as a captive by one or more others who threaten to keep, harm or kill him unless certain demands are met
hostel	 n. building in which food and lodging are provided for students, certain groups of workers, the homeless, travellers, etc
hostelry	 n. inn; public house
hostess	woman who receives and entertains one or more other people as guests
hostile	~ showing strong dislike or enmity; very unfriendly
hostility	n. ~ being hostile (to sb/sth); antagonism; enmity
hot	having a relatively or noticeably high temperature; giving off heat
hotbed	bed of earth heated by rotting manure to help plants to grow
hotel	n. building where rooms and usu meals are provided for people in return for payment
hothead	n. person who often acts too hastily or rashly; impetuous person ;
hot-headed	 adj. rash; impulsive; impetuous ;
hound	type of dog used in hunting; foxhound
hour	twenty-fourth part of a day and night; 60 minutes
house	building made for people to live in, usu for one family or for a family and lodgers
houseful	 n. as much or many as a house can contain or accommodate
household	all the people living together in a house
housewife	n. woman whose occupation is looking after her family, cleaning the house, etc, and who usu does not have full-time paid work outside the home
housewifely	adj. of a housewife
housewifery	n. work of a housewife
housework	n. work done in a house, eg cleaning and cooking
hove	 => heave
hovel	n. small house that is unfit to live in; very poor and squalid dwelling ;
hover	remain in the air in one place
hovercraft	 n. vehicle that is capable of moving over land or water while supported on a cushion of air made by jet engines
how	in what way or manner
however	to whatever extent or degree
howl	,
howler	 n. foolish and obvious mistake, esp in the use of words
hoyden	 n. girl who behaves in a wild noisy manner
hub	central part of a wheel from which the spokes radiate .
hubbub	 n. loud confused noise, eg of many voices; din ;
hubris	 n. arrogant pride
huckster	 n. person who sells goods in the street; hawker
huddle	crowd or be heaped together, esp in a small space
hue	n. colour; variety or shade of colour
huffy	quick to take offense ; (informal) roused to anger
hug	put the arms round (sb/sth) tightly, esp to show love
huge	 adj. very large in size or amount; enormous
hulk	body of an old ship which is no longer in use
hulking	adj. (of a person or thing) very big or heavy and usu awkward or clumsy
hull	 n. body of a ship
hullabaloo	 n. (usu sing ) continuous loud noise, esp of people shouting; uproar; din
hum	make a low steady continuous sound like that made by bees
human	of or characteristic of man
humane	having or showing sympathy, kindness and understanding
humanism	system of beliefs that concentrates on common human needs and seeks rational (rather than divine) ways of solving human problems
humanist	 n. supporter of humanism
humanistic	 adj.
humanitarian	 adj. concerned with improving the lives of mankind and reducing suffering, esp by social reform
humanity	human beings collectively; the human race; people
humanize	 To make gentle or refined.
humble	 adj. (of a person or his words or actions) having or showing a low or modest opinion of one's own importance; not proud
humbly	 adv. beg most humbly for forgiveness
humbug	dishonest behaviour or talk that is intended to deceive people and win their support or sympathy
humdinger	n. excellent or remarkable person or thing
humdrum	adj. lacking excitement or variety; dull; monotonous
humid	adj. containing moisture; damp
humidify	 v. make (the air, etc) damp
humidity	 n. degree of moisture, esp in the air; dampness ;
humiliate	v. make feel ashamed or disgraced; lower the dignity or self-respect of
humiliated	 [ humiliate: ] to lower or hurt the dignity or pride of
humiliation	n.
humility	 n. humble attitude of mind; modesty
hummingbird	tiny american bird having brilliant iridescent plumage and long slender bills; wings are specialized for vibrating flight
hummock	n. low hill or hump in the ground; hillock ;
humor	to soothe or content by indulgence
humorist	 n. person who is known for his humorous writing or talk
humorous	 adj. having or showing a sense of humour; amusing; funny
humour	quality of being amusing or comic
hump	round projecting part on the back of a camel, etc .
humus	n. rich dark organic material formed by the decay of dead leaves, etc and essential to the fertility of soil
hunch	n. idea based on intuition or instinct and not on evidence
hundred	pron, det 100; one more than ninety-nine 100
hundredfold	one hundred times as much or as many
hundredth	pron, det 100th; next after ninety-ninth 100. n one of one hundred equal parts of sth
hung	 pt, pp of hang
hunger	state of not having enough to eat; lack of food
hungry	suffering from weakness, pain, etc because of lack of food; starving
hunk	large piece cut from a larger piece
hunt	chase and try to kill or capture them, for food or sport
hunter	person who hunts
hurdle	(in athletics or horse-racing) each of a series of upright frames to be jumped over in a race
hurl	throw violently; fling
hurling	n. Irish ball game similar to hockey
hurly-burly	n. noisy and energetic activity
hurrah	)
hurricane	storm with a violent wind, esp a West Indian cyclone
hurry	need or wish to get something done quickly; eager haste
hurt	cause physical injury or pain to (sb/oneself, a part of the body, an animal, etc)
hurtle	 v. move violently, noisily or with great speed in the specified direction
husband	man to whom a woman is married
husbandry	n. farming
hush	become silent
husk	dry outer covering of certain seeds and fruits, esp grain
husky	(of a person or voice) dry in the throat; sounding slightly hoarse
hussar	 n. soldier of a cavalry regiment, carrying light weapons
hustings	 n. the hustings the political campaigning leading up to a parliamentary election, eg canvassing votes and making speeches
hustle	push roughly and hurriedly; jostle; shove
hustler	person who hustles (hustle 4)
hut	n. small roughly-built house or shelter, usu made of wood or metal ,
hybrid	animal or plant that has parents of different species or varieties
hybridization	to produce or cause to produce hybrids; crossbreed
hydra	snake-like monster with many heads that grew again if they were cut off
hydrant	n. pipe with a nozzle to which a hose can be attached, for drawing water from a water-main to clean streets, put out fires, etc ,
hydrate	n. chemical compound of water with another substance
hydraulic	of water moving through pipes
hydrocarbon	n. any of a class of compounds of hydrogen and carbon that are found in petrol, coal and natural gas
hydrodynamics	study of fluids in motion
hydroelectric	adj. using water-power to produce electricity
hydrogen	 n. gas that has no colour, taste or smell and is the lightest substance known, combining with oxygen to form water .
hydromechanical	[ hydromechanics: ] another name for: hydrodynamics
hydrometer	 n. scientificinstrument that measures the density of liquids
hydrophobia	abnormal fear of water and of drinking, esp as a symptom of rabies in humans
hydroplane	light motor boat with a flat bottom, that can travel fast over the surface of the water
hydroponics	n. art of growing plants without soil in water or sand to which chemical food is added
hydrostatics	 The branch of science that treats of the pressure and equilibrium of fluids.
hydrous	Watery.
hyena	n. flesh-eating animal of Africa and Asia, like a wolf, with a howl that sounds like wild laughter ,
hygiene	n. study and practice of cleanliness as a way of maintaining good health and preventing disease
hygienic	 adj. free from germs that cause disease; clean
hygroscopic	absorbing moisture (as from the air)
hymn	 n. song of praise, esp one praising God sung by Christians ,
hyperactivity	n.
hyperbola	n. curve produced when a cone is cut by a plane that makes a larger angle with the base than the side of the cone makes .
hyperbole	n. exaggeratedstatement that is made for special effect and is not meant to be taken literally, eg I've invited millions of people to my party ,
hyperbolic	 enlarged beyond truth or reasonableness ; of or relating to a hyperbola
hypercritical	adj. too critical, esp of small faults
hypersensitive	~ extremely sensitive emotionally
hypertension	abnormally high blood pressure
hyphen	 n. short line used to join two words together
hypnosis	 n. state like deep sleep in which a person's actions may be controlled by another person
hypnotic	of or producing hypnosis or a similar condition
hypnotism	n. production or practice of hypnosis
hypnotist	n. person who produces hypnosis in another person or who practices hypnosis
hypnotize	To produce a somnambulistic state in which the mind readily acts on suggestions.
hypochondria	 n. abnormal and unnecessary anxiety about one's health
hypochondriac	n. person who suffers from hypochondria
hypocrisy	n. practice of misrepresenting one's real character, opinions, etc, esp by pretending to be more virtuous than one really is; insincerity ;
hypocrite	n. person who pretends to have opinions which he does not have or to be what he is not
hypocritical	 adj. of hypocrisy or a hypocrite
hypodermic	 adj. (of drugs, etc) injected beneath the skin
hypotenuse	 n. side opposite the right angle of a right-angled triangle
hypothesis	 n. idea or suggestion that is based on known facts and is used as a basis for reasoning or further investigation
hypothesize	to form or assume as a hypothesis
hypothetical	 adj. of or based on a hypothesis; not necessarily true or real ;
hypothetically	 adv.
hysteria	 n. wild uncontrollable emotion or excitement, with eg laughter, crying or screaming
hysterical	caused by hysteria
hysterically	* It was hysterically funny
i	pers pron. person who is the speaker or writer
IBM	= International Business Machines
ice	water frozen so that it has become solid
iceberg	huge mass of ice floating in the sea .
ice-cream	n. frozen food made from sweetened and flavoured cream or custard
ichthyologist	one that study a branch of zoology that deals with fishes
ichthyology	study of fish
ichthyosaur	ichthyosaurus
icicle	 n. pointed piece of ice formed by the freezing of dripping water
icing	n. mixture of sugar,egg-white, flavouring, etc for covering and decorating cakes
icon	 n. painting, carving, etc of a holy person, itself regarded as sacred
iconoclast	person who attacks popular beliefs or established customs
iconoclastic	 attacking cherished beliefs
iconographic	the symbols used in a work of art or art movement
icy	very cold; as cold as ice
idea	plan, etc formed by thinking; thought
ideal	satisfying one's idea of whatis perfect; most suitable
idealism	forming,pursuing or believing in ideals (ideal n
idealist	 n. person who has high ideals and tries to achieve them
idealistic	 adj.
idealize	 To make to conform to some mental or imaginary standard.
ideally	adv. most suitably
identical	the ~ the same
identifiable	 [ identify: ] to prove or recognize as being a certain person or thing; determine the identity of
identification	identifying or being identified
identified	 [ identify: ] to prove or recognize as being a certain person or thing; determine the identity of
identify	~ sb/sth as sb/sth show, prove, etc who or what sb/sth is; recognize sb/sth (as being the specified person or thing)
identity	who or what sb/sth is
ideology	 n. ideas that form the basis of an economic or political theory or that are held by a particular group or person
idiocy	extreme stupidity
idiom	give way, a change of heart, be hard put to it
idiomatic	adj. in accordance with the particular nature or structure of a language, dialect, etc
idiosyncrasy	 n. person's particular way of thinking, behaving, etc that is clearly different from that of others
idiosyncratic	a peculiarity of constitution or temperament:an individualizingcharacteristic or quality
idiosyncratically [ idiosyncrasy: ] a tendency, type of behaviour, mannerism, etc., of a specific person; quirk
	idiosyncratically [ idiosyncrasy: ] a tendency, type of behaviour, mannerism, etc., of a specific person; quirk
idiot	very foolish person; fool
idle	doing or having no work; not employed
idleness	 n.
idol	image of a god, often carved in stone, wood, etc and used as an object of worship
idolater	 n. person who worships an idol or idols
idolatrize	 admires intensely and often blindly
idolatrous	 adj. worshipping idols
idolatry	 n. worship of idols
idolize	To regard with inordinate love or admiration.
idolized	 [ idolize: ] vt. to admire or revere greatly
idyll	short piece of poetry or prose that describes a happy and peaceful scene or event, esp of country life
idyllic	adj. like an idyll; peaceful and pleasant
idyllically	adv: idyllically happy
if	on condition that; supposing ; . (used with the present and present perfect tenses for highly predictable situations )
igloo	n. small dome-shaped housebuilt by Eskimos from blocks of hard snow as a temporaryshelter
igneous	adj. (of rocks) formed by molten matter (esp from volcanoes) that has become solid
ignite	 v. catch fire
ignition	causing sth to catch fire
ignoble	adj. not honourable in character or purpose; shameful
ignominious	adj. shameful or humiliating; causing disgrace
ignominy	 shame or humiliation; disgrace
ignoramus	n. ignorant person
ignorance	n. ~ lack of knowledge or information (about sth)
ignorant	~ (of sth)knowing little or nothing; lacking education or information; unaware
ignore	take no notice of
iguana	 n. type of large tree-climbing lizard of tropical America
Iliad	A Greek epic poem describing scenes from the siege of Troy.
ill	badly; wrongly
illegal	adj. against the law; not legal ;
illegality	state of being illegal
illegally	adv: an illegally parked car
illegibility	 n.
illegible	adj. difficult or impossible to read; not legible
illegitimate	born of parents not married to each other; not legitimate by birth
illiberal	nottolerant; narrow-minded
illicit	adj. not allowed by law; illegal
illimitable	infinite
illiteracy	 n. state of being illiterate
illiterate	not able to read or write
ill-natured	adj. bad-tempered; unkind
illness	state of being ill in body or mind; lack of health
illogical	without reason or logic; not sensible
illogically	adv.
illuminant	 That which may be used to produce light.
illuminate	provide with light
illuminati	 persons who are or who claim to be unusually enlightened
illuminating	 adj. particularly revealing or helpful
illumination	illuminating or being illuminated; light ;
illumine	 To make bright or clear.
illusion	false idea, belief or impression; delusion
illusive	 adjs. based on illusion; deceptive
illusory	 based on or producing illusion:DECEPTIVE
illustrate	supply with pictures, diagrams, etc
illustrated	[ illustrate: ] to clarify or explain by use of examples, analogy, etc.
illustration	illustrating or being illustrated
illustrative	 adj. servingas an example or illustration
illustrator	n. person who draws and paints pictures for books, etc
illustrious	adj. very famous anddistinguished
image	copy of the shape of a person or thing, esp one made in stone or wood; statue
imaginable	 adj. that can be imagined
imaginary	adj. existing only in the mind or imagination; not real
imagination	ability to form mental images or pictures
imaginative	adj. having or showing imagination
imagine	form a mental image of
imagism	a poetic movement in England and America between 1912 and 1917, initiated chiefly by Ezra Pound, advocating the use of ordinary speech and the precise presentation of images
imbalance	n. lack of balance or proportion; inequality
imbecile	 n. (esp adult) person with abnormally low intelligence
imbecility	stupidity
imbibe	drink (sth, esp alcohol)
imbroglio	n. complicated, confused or embarrassing situation, esp a political or an emotional one ,
imbrue	 drench, stain, especially with blood
imbue	v. ~ sb/sth with sth fill or inspire sb/sth with (feelings, etc)
imbued	 [ imbue: ] to instil or inspire (with ideals, principles, etc.)
imitate	copy the behaviour of (sb/sth); take or follow as an example
imitation	thing produced as a copy of the real thing
imitative	adj. copying or following a model or example
imitator	 n. person who imitates
immaculate	perfectly clean and tidy; spotless
immanent	(fml ) (of qualities) naturally present; inherent
immaterial	~ not important; irrelevant
immature	not sensible in behaviour or in controlling one's feelings; less mature than one would expect
immaturity	 n.
immeasurable	 adj. that cannot be measured, esp because of largeness in size or extent
immeasurably	 adv: Your presence has enriched our lives immeasurably. * The task seems immeasurably difficult
immediacy	n. closeness or reality of sth, so that one feels directly involved or has to deal with it at once
immediate	happening or done at once
immediately	at once; without delay
immemorial	going back beyond the reach of human memory or written records
immense	adj. extremely large
immensity	n. largeness; great size
immerse	~ sth put sth under the surface of a liquid
immersed	 sunk or submerged
immersion	immersing; being immersed ;
immigrant	n. person who has come to live permanently in a foreign country
immigrate	v. ~ enter a foreign country in order to live there permanently
immigration	moving of people from one country to come to live in another country permanently
imminence	the state of being imminent and liable to happen soon
imminent	 adj. about to happen; likely to happen very soon
immiscible	 Separating, as oil and water.
immobile	unable to move or be moved
immobility	 n. state of being immobile
immobilize	 to make or become immobile
immoderate	 adj. too extreme or excessive; not moderate
immodest	indecent or not proper; not modest, esp concerning sexual behaviour
immodestly	 adv.
immolate	 v. kill (sb) as a sacrifice
immolation	 n.
immoral	not following accepted standards of morality; not moral
immorality	 n. immoralbehaviour
immorally	adv: behave immorally
immortal	living for ever; not mortal
immortalize	To cause to last or to be known or remembered throughout a great or indefinite length of time.
immovable	that cannot be moved; impossible to move; fixed
immune	~ that cannot be harmed by a disease or illness, either because of inoculation or through natural resistance
immunity	~ ability to resist infection, disease, etc
immunization	to make immune, esp. by inoculation
immunize	to make immune, esp. by inoculation
immure	 v. imprison (sb); shut in
immutability	 n.
immutable	adj. that cannot be changed; that will never change
imp	small devil or evil spirit
impact	hitting of one object against another
impair	 v. weaken or damage
impairment	 n.
impale	 v. ~ sb/sth pierce sb/sth with a sharp-pointed object
impalpable	that cannot be touched or felt physically
impart	~ sth (to sth) give (a quality) to sth
impartial	adj. not favouring one person or thing more than another; fair or neutral
impartiality	 n.
impartially	adv: treat prisoners impartially
impassable	 adj. impossible to travel on or over
impasse	n. difficult position or situation from which there is no way out; deadlock
impassible	 Not moved or affected by feeling.
impassion	to arouse the passions of; inflam
impassioned	adj. showingstrong deep feeling
impassive	adj. showing no sign of feeling
impassiveness	[ impassive: ] not revealing or affected by emotion; reserved
impassivity	[ impassive: ] not revealing or affected by emotion; reserved
impatience	 Unwillingness to brook delays or wait the natural course of things.
impatient	~ (at sth/with sb) unable to deal calmly with sth/sb or to wait for sth; easily irritated by sb/sth; not patient
impeach	~ sb accuse (a public official or politician) of committing a serious crime, esp one against the State
impeachable	adj. for which a public official or politician can be impeached
impeachment	n.
impeccable	 adj. free from mistakes; excellent or faultless
impeccably	 adv: He was impeccably dressed for the occasion
impecunious	adj. having little or no money
impede	 v. hinder or obstruct the progress or movement of
impediment	~ person or thing that hinders or obstructs the progress or movement of sth
impedimenta	n. baggage and other supplies that slow down an army on a long journey
impeding	 [ impede: ] to restrict or retard in action, progress, etc.; hinder; obstruct
impel	v. ~ sb (to sth) force or urge sb to do sth
impend	 to be about to occur
impending	adj. about to happen; imminent
impenetrability	n.
impenetrable	~ that cannot be entered, passed through, etc
impenitent	 adj. not sorry for or ashamed of one's misdoings; not penitent;
imperative	very urgent or important; needing immediateattention
imperceptible	adj. that cannot be noticed or felt because so small, slight or gradual
imperceptibly	adv: Almost imperceptibly her expression changed.
imperfection	being imperfect
imperial	of an empire or its ruler(s)
imperialism	n. (belief in the) policy of extendinga country's power and influence in the world throughdiplomacy or military force, and esp by acquiring colonies
imperialist	n. person who supports or believes in imperialism
imperil	v. (fml ) put (sb/sth) in danger; endanger
imperious	adj. proud and arrogant; domineering; expecting obedience
imperiousness	haughty/arrogant/commandin
imperishable	 adj. that will not decay; that will never disappear
impermanent	adj. not permanent; temporary ;
impermeability	 [ impermeable: ] adj. (of a substance) not allowing the passage of a fluid through interstices; not permeable
impermeable	adj. not allowing a liquid to pass through
impermissible	adj. not allowed or permitted
impersonal	not influenced by, showing or involving human feelings
impersonate	pretend to be in order to entertain others
impersonator	 n. person who impersonates other people
impertinence	 Rudeness.
impertinent	adj. ~ not respectful; rude
imperturbability calmness
	imperturbability calmness
imperturbable	adj. not easily troubled or worried; calm
impervious	not allowing water, gas, etc to pass through
imperviousness	 arrogance/commanding presence/overbearingness
impetuosity	Rashness.
impetuous	adj. acting or done quickly and with little thought or care; rash or impulsive
impetuously	adv.
impetus	~ thing that encourages a process to develop more quickly
impiety	n. lack of respect, esp for God and religion ,
impinge	v. ~ on/upon sth have an effect on sth
impious	adj. showing a lack of respect, esp for God and religion; not pious ,
implacable	 adj. that cannot be changed or satisfied
implacably	 adv: implacably opposed to the plan
implant	deliberately introduce or fix (ideas, etc) into a person's mind
implausibility	 incredibility
implausible	adj. unlikely to be true; not convincing
implement	n. tool or instrument
implementation	 n.
implicate	v. ~ sb show that sb is involved in sth, esp a crime
implication	~ thing that is suggested or implied; thingnot openly stated
implicit	~ implied, but not expressed directly; not explicit
implicitly	 adv: trust sb implicitly
implode	v. burst or collapse inwards
implore	v. ask or beg earnestly; beseech
implosion	collapse; bursting inward
imply	suggest (sth) indirectly rather than state it directly; hint
impolitic	adj. not wise; not politic
imponderable	 adj. of which the effect or importance cannot be measured or estimated
import	 v. ~ sth ~ sth (into...) bring (goods, ideas, etc) from a foreign country into one's own country
importance	~ being important; significance or value
important	~ very serious and significant; of great value or concern
importation	The act or practice of bringing from one country into another.
importunate	adj. persistent, esp in making requests or demands
importune	~ sb (for sth) ask sb persistently (for sth), usu in an annoying manner; beg or demand insistently
impose	~ sth place (a penalty, tax, etc) officially on sb/sth
imposing	 adj. impressive in appearance or manner; grand
impossibility	n.
impossible	that cannot be done or exist; not possible
impossibly	 adv: impossibly difficult
impost	 a tax, esp. a customs duty
imposter	 [ impost: ] a tax, esp. a customs duty
impostor	 n. person pretending to be sb else, usu in order to deceive others
imposture	n. (action of) deliberately deceiving by pretending to be sb else
impotent	unable to take effective action; powerless or helpless
impound	take legal possession of
impoverish	make poor
impracticable	adj. impossible to put into practice; not practicable
impractical	not sensible, useful or realistic
impractically	adv.
imprecation	n. oath or curse
imprecise	adj. not exact or accurate; not correctly or clearly stated; not precise
imprecision	n.
impregnable	adj. so strong and well-constructed that it cannot be entered orcaptured
impregnate	~ sth cause (one substance) to be filled in every part with another substance; saturate sth
impresario	 n. manager or director of a ballet, concert, theatre or opera company
impress	~ sb have a favourable effect on sb; make sb feel admiration and respect
impressed	[ impress: ] to make an impression on; have a strong, lasting, or favourable effect on
impression	~ deep lasting effect on the mind or feelings of sb
impressionable	 adj. easily influenced or affected
impressive	 adj. having a strong effect on sb, esp through size, grandeur, or importance
imprimatur	 n. official permission to print a book, esp as given by the Roman Catholic Church
imprint	v. ~ sth in/on sth press (sth hard) onto a surface, leaving an impression or mark
imprison	 to confine in or as if in prison
imprisoning	[ imprison: ] to confine in or as if in prison
imprisonment	 n. state of being imprisoned
improbability	n. state of being improbable
improbable	 adj. not likely to be true or to happen; not probable
improbity	-ties)
impromptu	adj. adv without preparation, rehearsal or thought in advance
improper	wrong or incorrect
impropriety	n. indecent or unsuitable behaviour; dishonest practice
improve	become better
improvement	~ action or process of improving; state of being improved
improvidence	 n.
improvident	adj. not preparing for future needs; wasteful
improvisation	an unplanned expedient ; a performance given without planning or preparation
improvise	compose or play (music), speak or act without previous preparation
improvised	 to compose, recite, play, or sing extemporaneously
imprudent	adj. not wise or discreet; not prudent
impudence	n. being impudent; impudent behaviour or speech
impudent	 adj. very rude and disrespectful
impugn	 v. express doubts about (sth)
impuissance	n. lack of power or effectiveness; weakness
impulse	~ (to do sth) sudden urge to act without thinking about the results
impulsion	n. ~ (fml ) strong urge (to do sth)
impulsive	adj. marked by sudden action that is undertaken without careful thought
impunity	 n. with impunity with freedom from punishment or injury
impure	morally wrong, esp in one's sexual behaviour
impurity	state orquality of being impure
imputation	 n. action of imputing; accusation
impute	 v. ~ sth to sb/sthput the responsibility for sth on sb/sth; attributesth to sb/sth ;
in	(to a position) within a particular area or volume
in retrospect	prep. looking back on past events,experiences,ect
in themselves	prep.
in view of	 prep. talking sth into acount; onsidering sth
inability	n. ~ lack of power, skill or ability; being unable
inaccessible	 adj. ~ very difficult or impossible to reach, approach, or be contacted (by sb); not accessible
inaccuracy	 n. being inaccurate
inaccurate	 adj. having errors; not correct or accurate
inactive	not active; idle
inactivity	 n.
inadequacy	being inadequate
inadequate	not sufficient or enough; not good enough for a particular purpose
inadequately	 adv.
inadmissible	 adj. that cannotbe allowed or admitted, esp in a court of law
inadvertence	 oversight; carelessness
inadvertent	adj. done without thinking or not deliberately
inadvertently	adv. by accident; unintentionally
inadvisable	adj. unwise; not sensible
inalienable	adj. that cannot be taken away
inamorata	masc. inamorato
inane	adj. without meaning; silly or stupid
inanimate	not alive, esp in the way that humans and animals are
inanition	lack of vitality or energy ; exhaustion resulting from lack of food
inanity	n. being inane
inapplicable	 adj. ~ that is not relevant or cannot be applied
inappropriate	adj. ~ not suitable or appropriate (for sb/sth)
inapt	adj. not relevant, appropriate or useful
inaptly	[ inapt: ] not apt or fitting; inappropriate
inaptness	n. being inapt
inarticulate	unable to express one's words, ideas or feelings clearly
inasmuch	 since/because
inattention	n. ~ lack of attention; neglect
inattentive	adj. ~ not paying attention (to sb/sth); not attentive
inaudible	adj. not loud enough to be heard; not audible
inaugural	adj. of or for an inauguration
inaugurate	~ sb introduce (a new public official or leader) at a special ceremony
inauguration	 n. inaugurating or being inaugurated
inaugurator	n. person who inaugurates sth
inauspicious	 adj. havingsigns which show that future success is unlikely; not favourable
inborn	 adj. existing in a person or animal from birth; natural; innate
inbound	directed or moving inward or toward a center
inbred	natural; innate
incalculable	too large or great to be calculated
incandescence	The state of being white or glowing with heat.
incandescent	 adj. glowing or shining when heated
incantation	n. series of words used as a magic spell or charm
incapable	~ of sth/doing sth not able to do sth
incapacitate	make sb unable (to do sth); weaken or disable sb
incapacity	 n. ~ ~ (for sth/doing sth) lack of ability and necessary strength (to do sth); weakness or inability
incarcerate	v. ~ sb (fml ) put sb in prison
incarnate	in the physical form of a human being
incarnation	person that prominently displays a particular quality
incautious	 adj. acting or done without enough care or thought; not cautious; rash ;
incendiary	designed to set buildings, etc on fire
incense	n. substance that produces a pleasant smell when burnt, used esp in religious ceremonies
incentive	n. ~ thing that encourages sb to do sth; stimulus
inception	n. start or beginning of sth
inceptive	Beginning.
incertitude	the state of being unsure of something
incessant	adj. not stopping; continual
incessantly	adv: complain incessantly
incest	 n. sexual intercourse betweenpeople who are too closely related to marry, eg brother and sister or father and daughter ,
inch	measure of length equal to 2.54 cm or one twelfth of a foot 112, 12.54
inchmeal	 Piecemeal.
inchoate	 adj. just begun and therefore not fully formed or developed
inchoative	 That which begins, or expresses beginning.
incidence	~ of sth extent to which sth happens or has an effect
incident	event or happening,often of minor importance
incidental	small and relatively unimportant; minor
incidentally	by the way
incinerate	 v. destroy completely by burning; burn to ashes ;
incipience	 beginning to exist or to be apparent
incipient	adj. in its early stages; beginning to happen
incise	 v. make a cut in (a surface)
incision	 n. cutting, esp by a surgeon into the flesh for an operation
incisive	 adj. clear and precise; direct or sharp
incisor	n. one of the eight sharp cutting teeth at the front of the mouth
incite	~ sb urge or persuade sb to do sth by making him very angry or excited
incitement	 n. ~ action that incites certain behaviour
incivility	lack of politeness
inclemency	 n.
inclement	adj. cold and stormy; bad
inclination	~ ~ (to do sth) feeling that makes sb want to behave in a particular way; disposition
incline	~ towards sth lean or slope in the direction of sth
inclined	~ wanting to behave in a particular way; disposed
include	have as part of a whole
inclusion	n. ~ including or being included
inclusive	~ including sth; including much or all
incoercible	Incapable of being forced, constrained, or compelled.
incogitant	 adj. thoughtless; inconsiderate.
incognito	adj. , adv with one's true identity hidden; in disguise
incoherence	Want of connection, or agreement, as of parts or ideas in thought, speech, etc.
incoherent	not clear or logical
incombustibility [ incombustible: ] not capable of being burnt; fireproof
	incombustibility [ incombustible: ] not capable of being burnt; fireproof
incombustible	adj. that cannot be burnt
income	 n. money received over a certain period, esp as payment for work or as interest on investments
incommensurate	~ (to/with sth) not in proportion to sth; inadequate
incommode	v. inconvenience or trouble (sb)
incommodious	 adj. uncomfortable, usu because too small; inconvenient;
incommunicable	 adj. that cannot be communicated
incommunicado	adj. , adv without being allowed tocommunicate with other people
incommunicative	not inclined to talk or give information or express opinions
incomparable	 adj. too good, great, etc to have an equal; beyond comparison
incompatibility	n.
incompatible	~ not able to live or work happily with sb
incompetence	 n. lack of skill or ability to do a task successfully
incompetent	nothaving or showing the necessary skills to do sth successfully
incomplete	 adj. not having all its parts; not complete
incompleteness	 n.
incomprehensibility 
	incomprehensibility 
incomprehensible adj. that cannot be understood; not comprehensible
	incomprehensible adj. that cannot be understood; not comprehensible
incomprehension	n. failure to understand sth
incompressible	 adj. that cannot be compressed; unyielding
inconceivable	very difficult to believe
inconceivably	adv. in a way that is very difficult to believe or understand
inconclusive	 adj. not leading to a definite decision, conclusion or result
incongruent	not superposable so as to be coincident throughoutnot congruent
incongruity	state of being incongruous
incongruous	adj. strange because not in harmony with the surrounding features; out of place
inconsequential	adj. trivial or irrelevant; not important
inconsiderable	 adj. small in size or value; not worth considering
inconsiderate	adjnot caring about the feelings of other people; thoughtless; not considerate
inconsistency	n. quality of being inconsistent
inconsistent	~ not in harmony (with sth); containing parts that do not agree with one another
inconsolable	 adj. that cannot be comforted
inconsolably	 adv: weep inconsolably
inconsonant	adj. lacking in harmony or compatibility; discordant
inconspicuous	adj. not very noticeable or obvious; not conspicuous
inconstancy	n.
inconstant	(of people) having feelings and intentions that change often; not faithful
incontestable	adj. that cannot be disputed or disagreed with
incontinence	 n.
incontinent	unable to control the bladder or bowels in passing waste matter from the body
incontrovertible adj. so obvious and certain that it cannot be disputed or denied
	incontrovertible adj. so obvious and certain that it cannot be disputed or denied
incontrovertibly adv: incontrovertibly true
	incontrovertibly adv: incontrovertibly true
inconvenience	n. trouble, difficulty or discomfort
inconvenient	 adj. causing trouble, difficulty or discomfort; awkward
incorporate	~ sth (in/into sth) make sth part of a whole; include
incorporation	n. incorporating or being incorporated
incorporeal	adj. without a body or material form
incorrect	not correct or true
incorrectly	adv: answer incorrectly
incorrigibility	cannot be cured or corrected
incorrigible	 adj. that cannot be corrected or improved
incorruptible	unable to be corrupted morally, eg with bribes
increase	 v. ~ (from A) (to B) become or make (sth) greater in number, quantity, size, etc
increasingly	 adv. more and more
incredible	impossible to believe
incredulity	a tendency to disbelief
incredulous	adj. not willing or able to believe; showing disbelief
increment	n. increase, esp in money paid as a salary; added amount
incremental	adj. incremental increases
incriminate	v. make appear to be guilty of wrongdoing
incriminatory	adj. tending to incriminate sb
incrustation	formation of a hard outer covering; encrusting ;
incubate	keep (eggs) warm, usu by sitting on them, until they hatch
incubation	hatching
incubator	n. boxlike apparatus for hatching eggs by artificial warmth or for rearing small, weak babies
incubus	n. male evil spirit formerly supposed to have sex with a sleeping woman
inculcate	v. ~ sth ~ sb with sth (fml ) fix (ideas, principles, etc) firmly in sb's mind, esp by repetition
inculpate	vt. to incriminate
incumbency	 n. position of an incumbent
incumbent	~ on/upon sb necessary as part of sb's duty
incur	v. cause oneself to suffer (sth bad); bring upon oneself
incurable	adj. that cannot be cured
incurably	adv: incurably ill, stupid, optimistic
incuriosity	[ incurious: ] adj. not curious; indifferent or uninterested
incurious	adj. having no curiosity; not inquisitive ;
incursion	sudden attack on or invasion of a place (not usu made in order to occupy it permanently)
indebted	 adj. ~ to sb owing money or gratitude to sb
indebtedness	 n.
indecency	being indecent; indecent behaviour
indecipherable	 adj. that cannot be deciphered
indecision	 n. ~ state of being unable to decide; hesitation
indecisive	 adj. not final or conclusive
indecisiveness	 [ indecisive: ] (of a person) vacillating; irresolute
indecorous	 adj. not in accordance with dignity, good manners or good taste
indeed	truly; really; certainly ; . (used to emphasize an affirmative reply )
indefatigability not easily exhaustible; tirelessness
	indefatigability not easily exhaustible; tirelessness
indefatigable	adj. never giving up or stopping in spite of tiredness or difficulty; tireless
indefensible	 adj. that cannot be defended, justified or excused
indefensibly	 adv: indefensibly rude
indefinable	adj. that cannot be defined
indefinite	not clearly defined or stated; vague
indefinitely	 adv: You may have to wait indefinitely
indelibility	 [ indelible: ] incapable of being erased or obliterated
indelible	adj. that cannot be rubbed out or removed
indelicate	 adj. (of a person, his speech, behaviour,etc) lacking in tact or refinement; rather rude or embarrassing
indemnification	indemnifying or being indemnified
indemnify	~ sb (from/against sth) (law or commerce ) promise to compensate sb for any harm he may suffer
indemnity	~ guarantee against damage or loss; compensationfor these
indent	make a mark or set of marks by cutting into the edge or surface of (sth)
indentation	indenting or being indented
indented	 [ indent: ] to place (written or printed matter, etc.) in from the margin, as at the beginning of a paragraph
indenture	v. ~ sb contract sb to work as an apprentice
independence	 n. ~ state of being independent
independent	~ not dependent (on other people or things); not controlled (by other people or things)
independently	adv: Scientists in different countries, working independently of each other, have come up with very similar results
indescribable	adj. too bad or good to be described
indescribably	adv: indescribably beautiful, awful, filthy, etc
indestructible	 adj. that cannot be destroyed
indeterminate	adj. not fixed or exact; vague; indefinite
index	n. list of names or topics referred to in a book, etc, usu arranged at the end in alphabetical order
India	a republic in S Asia: history dates from the Indus Valley civilization (3rd millennium b.c.)
Indian	of the Republic of India
indicant	 That which points out.
indicate	~ sth (to sb) show sth, esp by pointing
indication	indicating or being indicated
indicative	stating a fact or asking questions of fact
indicator	person or thing that points out or gives information
indices	pl of index
indict	 v. ~ sb (law ) accuse sb officially (of sth); charge sb
indicted	 [ indict: ] to charge (a person) with crime, esp. formally in writing; accuse
indictment	~ (against sb) written statement that indicts sb
indifference	 n. ~ state of being indifferent; absence of interest, feeling or reaction
indifferent	~ having no interest in sb/sth; neither for nor against sb/sth; not caring about sb/sth
indifferently	adv: He nodded indifferently. * The team played indifferently today
indigence	n. poverty
indigenous	 adj. ~ (fml ) belonging naturally (to a place); native
indigent	 adj. poor
indigestible	 adj. difficultor impossible to digest
indigestion	n. difficulty in digesting food
indignant	adj. ~ (at/over/about sth) angry and scornful, esp at injustice or because of undeserved blame, etc
indignantly	adv.
indignation	n. ~ (at/over/about sth) anger caused by sth thought to be unjust, unfair, etc
indignity	rude or unworthy treatment causing shame or loss of respect
indigo	deep blue dye
indirect	not going in a straight line; circuitous
indirectly	 adv.
indirectness	 n.
indiscernible	adj. that cannot be discerned
indiscreet	 adj. too open in what one says or does; lacking tact or caution
indiscretion	indiscreet conduct; lack of discretion ;
indiscriminate	 adj. ~ (in sth) acting without careful judgement
indispensability absolutely necessary:ESSENTIAL
	indispensability absolutely necessary:ESSENTIAL
indispensable	Necessary or requisite for the purpose.
indispose	to make unwilling or opposed; disincline
indisposed	(slightly) ill
indisposition	slight illness; ill health ;
indisputable	 adj. that cannot be disputed or denied
indisputably	 adv: indisputably the best tennis player in the world
indissoluble	 adj. that cannot be dissolved or broken up; firm and lasting
indistinct	 adj. not distinct; vague
indistinguishable adj. ~ that cannot be identified as different or distinct; (virtually) identical
	indistinguishable adj. ~ that cannot be identified as different or distinct; (virtually) identical
indite	 write; compose
individual	single; separate
individualism	feeling or behaviour of a person who likes to do things his/her own way, regardless of what other people do
individuality	all the characteristics that belong to a particular person and that make him/her different from others
individualize	to make or mark as individual or distinctive in character
individualized	 [ individualize: ] to make or mark as individual or distinctive in character
indivisible	adj. that cannot be divided
indocile	 ungovernable ; uncontrollable
indoctrinate	 v. ~ sb (usu derog ) cause sb to have (a particular set of beliefs), esp by teaching which excludes any other points of view
indoctrination	 n. ~ indoctrinating
indolence	laziness
indolent	 adj. lazy; inactive ;
indomitable	adj. that cannot be subdued or defeated; unyielding
indoor	 adj. carried on or situated inside a building; used in or suitable for the inside of a building
indoors	inside or into a house or other buildin
indubitable	adj. that cannot be doubted; without doubt ;
indubitably	adv: That is indubitably the best course of action
induce	persuade or influence (sb) to do sth
inducement	 n. ~ that which persuades; incentive
induct	 v. ~ sb install sb formally or with ceremony in a position or an office; admit sb as a member of sth
induction	~ inducting or being inducted; initiation
inductive	based on induction
indulge	~ oneself/sb (with sth) allow oneself/sb to have whatever one/he likes or wants
indulgence	state of being allowed whatever one wants
indulgent	adj. inclined to indulge
indurate	 to make hard
industrial	of or engaged in industry
industrialization [ industrialize: ] vt. to develop industry on an extensive scale in (a country, region, et)
	industrialization [ industrialize: ] vt. to develop industry on an extensive scale in (a country, region, et)
industrialize	vt. to develop industry on an extensive scale in (a country, region, et)
industrious	adj. hard-working; diligent ;
industriousness	constantly, regularly, or habitually occupied
industry	(branch of) manufacture or production
inebriate	adj. n habitually drunk (person)
inebriated	 adj. drunk; intoxicated
inebriation	n. drunkenness
inebriety	habitual intoxication
inedible	 adj. not suitable to be eaten
ineffable	adj. too great to be described in words
ineffaceable	 indelible; permanent
ineffective	adj. not producing the required effect
ineffectiveness	n.
ineffectual	adj. lacking confidence and unable to get things done; without effect
inefficacious	nou
inefficiency	 That which does not accomplish an intended purpose.
inefficient	not producing adequate results; wasteful
inefficiently	adv.
inelastic	adj. not flexible or adaptable; unyielding
inelasticity	 [ inelastic: ] not elastic; not resilient
inelegant	adj. not graceful or refined; ugly
ineligibility	n.
ineligible	 adj. ~ not having the appropriate or necessary qualifications (for sth)
ineluctable	adj. that cannot be escaped from
inept	adj. ~ (at sth/doing sth) completely unskilful (at sth)
ineptitude	 n. quality of being inept
ineptly	adv.
inequality	 n. lack of equality in size, degree, circumstances, etc, esp unfair difference in rank, wealth, opportunity, etc
inequity	 n. injustice or unfairness
ineradicable	 adj. that cannot be got rid of; firmly and deeply established
inerrancy	(christianity) exemption from error
inert	without power to move or act
inertia	lack of vigour; lethargy
inertial	 adj. of or by inertia
inescapable	adj. that cannot be avoided; inevitable
inescapably	adv.
inessential	not necessary
inestimable	adj. too great, precious, etc to be estimated
inevitability	n.
inevitable	that cannot be avoided; that is sure to happen
inevitably	 adv. as is or was sure to happen
inexact	adj. not exact or precise
inexcusable	adj. too bad to be excused
inexcusably	adv: inexcusably rude, late, etc
inexhaustible	adj. that will always continue; that cannot be used up
inexorable	 adj. continuing unstoppably; relentless
inexpedient	adj. not serving a useful purpose; unwise; not expedient
inexpensive	adj. low priced; not expensive ;
inexperience	 n. ~ lack of experience
inexperienced	adj. ~ lacking experience
inexpiable	 adj. (of an offence) so bad that nothing one can do can make up for it; that cannot be expiated
inexplicable	 adj. that cannot be explained
inexplicably	 adv: Inexplicably, she never turned up. ,
inexplicit	 adj. not explicit, clear, or precise; vague
inexpressible	adj. too great to be expressed in words
inexpressibly	adv: inexpressibly sad
inextricable	so closely linked that separation is impossible
inextricably	 adv: Her career was inextricably linked with his
infallibility	complete freedom from the possibility of being wrong
infallible	incapable of making mistakes or doing wrong
infallibly	in a manner that cannot fail
infamous	~ well-known as being wicked or immoral; notorious
infamy	infamousbehaviour; wickedness ;
infant	child during the first few years of life
infantile	of infants or infancy
infantry	 n. soldiers who fight on foot
infatuate	to cause to be foolish:deprive of sound judgment
infatuated	 adj. ~ (usu derog ) (temporarily) filled with an intense but usu foolish love
infatuation	n. ~ being infatuated
infect	 to cause infection in; contaminate (an organism, wound, etc.) with pathogenic microorganisms
infection	~ becoming ill through contact with bacteria, etc
infectious	caused by bacteria, etc that are passed on from one person to another
infelicitous	 not appropriate in application or expression
infelicity	 the state or quality of being unhappy or unfortunate
infer	v. ~ sth (from sth) reach (an opinion) from facts or reasoning; conclude sth
inferable	[ infer: ] to conclude (a state of affairs, supposition, etc.) by reasoning from evidence; deduce
inference	process of inferring
inferior	 adj. ~ low(er) in rank, social position, importance, quality, etc
inferiority	n. state of being inferior
infernal	of hell
infernally	 adv: infernally rude
inferno	place or situation like hell, esp in being full of horror and confusion
inferred	 [ infer: ] to conclude (a state of affairs, supposition, etc.) by reasoning from evidence; deduce
infertile	adj. not fertile; barren
infertility	n.
infest	 To be present in such numbers as to be a source of annoyance, trouble, or danger.
infestation	n. infesting or being infested
infidel	n. person with no belief in a religion, esp in what is considered to be the true religion ,
infidelity	 n. (act of) disloyalty or unfaithfulness, esp adultery
infiltrate	~ (into sth) (of liquids, gases, etc) pass slowly by filtering; penetrate
infiltration	~ (into sth) infiltrating or being infiltrated
infiltrator	n. person who infiltrates
infinite	 adj. without limits; endless
infinitely	to an infinite degree
infinitesimal	adj. extremelysmall
infinity	state of being endless or boundless; infinite nature
infirm	physically weak
infirmary	hospital
infirmity	n. weakness
inflame	v. ~ sb/sth cause sb/sth to become angry or over-excited
inflamed	(of a part of the body) red, hot and sore (eg because of infection)
inflammable	that can be set on fire
inflammation	 n. condition in which a part of the body is red, swollen and sore or itchy, esp because of infection
inflammatory	tending to make people angry or over-excited
inflatable	 adj. that can be or must be inflated
inflate	~ sth (with sth) fill (a tyre, balloon, etc) with air or gas
inflated	filled with air, gas, etc
inflation	process of inflating (inflate 1a); being inflated ;
inflexibility	n.
inflexible	 adj. that cannot be bent or turned
inflict	~ sth cause (a blow, penalty, etc) to be suffered (by sb)
infliction	 n. inflicting or being inflicted
influence	~ power to produce an effect; action of natural forces
influential	~ having influence; persuasive
influx	 n. ~ arrival of people or things, esp suddenly and in large numbers or quantities
inform	~ sb give sb knowledge (of sth); tell sb
informal	not formal; without formality
informality	being informal
informally	 adv: They told me informally that I had got the job.
information	informing or being informed
informed	 adj. having or showing knowledge
informer	 n. person who informs, esp against a criminal or fugitive ,
infraction	,
infrared	 the part of the electromagnetic spectrum with a longer wavelength than light but a shorter wavelength than radio waves; radiation with wavelength between 0.8 micrometres and 1 millimetre
infrastructure	,
infrequence	Rareness.
infrequent	 adj. not frequent; rare
infrequently	 adv.
infringe	break (a rule, an agreement, etc)
infringement	 n. infringing or being infringed
infuriate	v. make extremely angry
infuriated	 [ infuriate: ] vt. to anger; annoy
infuriatingly	adv: Infuriatingly, I just missed my plane. ,
infuse	~ sth into sb/sth; ~ sb/sth with sth put into sb/sth; fill sb/sth with (a quality) ;
infusion	~ of sth infusing a quality or being infused into sb/sth
ingenious	adj. ~ (at sth/doing sth) (of a person) clever at finding new or simple solutions for complex problems
ingeniousness	[ ingenious: ] possessing or done with ingenuity; skilful or clever
ingenue	n. simple innocent girl, esp as portrayed in plays, films, etc
ingenuity	n. cleverness and originality in solving problems
ingenuous	adj. not attempting to deceive or conceal; open; innocent
ingest	take (food, etc) into the body, typically by swallowing ,
ingestion	[ ingest: ] to take (food or liquid) into the body
inglorious	shameful; ignominious
ingrain	to impress deeply on the mind or nature; instil
ingrained	deeply fixed; thorough
ingrate	ungrateful person
ingratiate	 to become popular with
ingratiating	 adj. attempting to please, flatter or gain favour
ingratiation	 [ ingratiate: ] to place (oneself) purposely in the favour (of another)
ingratitude	n. lack of gratitude
ingredient	any of the foods that are combined to make a particular dish
ingress	n. going in; (right of) entrance
inhabit	v. live in (sth); occupy
inhabitable	adj. that can be lived in
inhabitant	 n. person or animal living in a place
inhalation	 the act of inhaling; breathing in of air or other vapours
inhale	 v. ~ sth breathe sth in
inherence	The state of being permanently existing in something.
inherent	 adj. ~ existing as a natural or permanent feature or quality of sb/sth
inherently	 adv: a design which is inherently weak
inherit	receive (property, a title, etc) as a result of the death of the previous owner
inheritor	n. person who inherits
inhibit	~ sb prevent sb from doing sth that should be natural or easy to do
inhibited	adj. (of people) unable to relax or express one's feelings in a natural and spontaneous way
inhibition	inhibiting or being inhibited
inhibitor	a person or thing that inhibits
inhospitable	 adj. (of people) not giving a friendly or polite welcome to guests
inhuman	adj. lacking normal human qualities of kindness, pity, etc; extremely cruel or brutal
inhumane	 adj. insensitive to the suffering of others; cruel
inhume	 To place in the earth, as a dead body.
inimical	unfriendly; hostile
inimitable	 adj. impossible to imitate; too good, clever, etc to imitate
iniquitous	very wicked or unjust
iniquity	(rhet ) wickedness and unjustness
initial	adj. of or at the beginning; first
initially	adv. at the beginning; at first
initiate	put (a scheme, etc) into operation; cause (sth) to begin
initiative	action taken to resolve a difficulty
inject	~ sth ~ sb/sth (with sth) force (a drug or other liquid) into sb/sth with a syringe or similar implement
injection	injecting
injunction	 n. official order, esp a written order from a lawcourt, demanding that sth shall or shall not be done
injure	 v. hurt (sb); harm
injurious	~ (to sb/sth) causing or likely to cause injury; harmful
injury	physical harm to a living being
injustice	lack of justice
ink	coloured liquid for writing, drawing and printing
inkling	n. ~ slight knowledge (of sth secret or not previously known); hint
inky	made dirty with ink
inland	situated in the interior of a country, not by the sea or by a frontier
inlet	strip of water extending into the land from the sea or a lake, or between islands ,
inmost	most inward; furthest from the surface
inn	n. public house or small old hotel where lodgings, drink and meals may be had, now usu in the country ,
innate	 adj. in one's nature; possessed from birth
inner	inside
innocence	n. ~ quality or state of being innocent(1, 4, 5)
innocent	~ not guilty (of wrongdoing)
innocuous	causing no harm
innovate	 v. make changes; introduce new things
innovation	 n. innovating
innovative	 adj. introducing or using new ideas, techniques, etc
innovator	n. person who innovates
innuendo	 n. (derog ) indirect reference (usu suggesting sth bad or discreditable about sb)
innumerable	adj. too many to be counted
inoculate	v. ~ sb (against sth) inject sb with a mild form of a disease, so that he will not catch the disease itself
inoculation	n. ~ (against sth) inoculating or being inoculated
inoffensive	adj. not giving offence; not objectionable
inopportune	adj. not appropriate or convenient
inordinate	 adj. beyond proper or normal limits; excessive
inorganic	not composed of living substances
input	action of putting sth in
inquest	official inquiry to discover facts, esp about a death which may not have been the result of natural causes ,
inquietude	 n. uneasiness of mind; anxiety ;
inquire	~ sth (of sb) ask to be told sth (by sb)
inquiry	n. ~ (about/concerning sb/sth) (fml ) request for help or information (about sb/sth)
inquisition	the Inquisitionorganization appointed by the Roman Catholic Church to suppress heresy (esp from the 15th to the 17th century) , 1517
inquisitive	adj. fond of inquiring into other people's affairs
inquisitor	 n. investigator, esp an officer of the Inquisition
inquisitorial	adj. of or like an inquisitor
inroad	~ (into sth) sudden attack on another's territory; raid
inrush	 n. rushing in (of sth); sudden arrival in large numbers
insalubrious	 adj. unhealthy
insalubrity	[ insalubrious: ] nou
insane	 adj. not sane; mad; senseless
insanity	 n. madness; being mad
insatiable	 adj. ~ that cannot be satisfied; very greedy
inscribe	 v. ~ A ~ B (with A) write (words, one's name, etc) on or in sth, esp as a formal or permanent record
inscription	n. words written on sth, cut in stone or stamped on a coin or medal
inscrutability	 n.
inscrutable	adj. that cannot be understood or known; mysterious
insect	type of small animal having six legs, no backbone and a body divided into three parts (head, thorax and abdomen)
insecticide	n. substance used for killing insects
insecure	not secure or safe; not providing good support; that cannot be relied on
insecurity	 n.
inseminate	 v. put sperm into either naturally or artificially
insemination	 n. inseminating
insensate	without the power to feel or experience
insensibility	unconsciousness
insensible	unconscious as the result of injury, illness, etc
insensitive	not realizing or caring how other people feel, and therefore likely to offend them
insensitivity	n.
insentient	 Lacking the power of feeling or perceiving.
inseparable	adj. ~ that cannot be separated
insert	 v. ~ sth put, fit, place sth into sth or between two things
insertion	~ inserting or being inserted
inside	inner side or surface; part within
insider	n. person who, as a member of a group or an organization, is able to obtain information not available to others ; . insider `dealing buying or selling with the help of information known only by those connected with the business
insidious	adj. spreading or acting gradually and unnoticed but with harmful effects
insight	(approv ) ability to see into the true nature (of sth); deep understanding
insightful	 adj. showing insight
insignia	 n. symbols of rank or authority, eg the crown and sceptre of a king or queen
insignificance	 Lack of import or of importance.
insignificant	adj. having little or no value, use, meaning or importance
insincere	adj. not sincere
insincerity	n.
insinuate	~ sth suggest sth (to sb) unpleasantly and indirectly
insipid	having almost no taste or flavour
insist	~ demand (sth) forcefully, not accepting a refusal
insistence	 n. ~ (about/on sth); ~ (that...)
insistent	adj. ~ ~ (that...) tending to insist; not allowing refusal or opposition
insistently	adv.
insolate	 to expose to sunlight, as for bleaching
insolence	n. ~ being insolent
insolent	 adj. ~ extremely rude, esp in expressing contempt
insolently	 adv.
insoluble	that cannot be dissolved; not soluble
insolvency	 bankruptcy; lack of ability to repay debts
insolvent	adj. unable to pay debts; bankrupt ;
insomnia	 n. inability to sleep
insomniac	n. person who finds it difficult to go to sleep
insouciance	n. state of being unconcerned, esp in a light-hearted way; nonchalance ;
insouciant	 lighthearted unconcern:NONCHALANCE
inspect	examine (sth) closely
inspection	inspecting or being inspected
inspector	official who inspects eg schools, factories, mines
inspiration	~ stimulation of the mind, feelings, etc to do sth beyond a person's usual ability, esp creative ability in art, literature, music, etc; state or quality of being inspired
inspirational	adj. providing inspiration
inspire	~ sb fill sb with the ability or urge to do, feel, etc sth beyond his usual ability, esp to write, paint, compose, etc
inspired	filled with creative power
instability	n. lack of stability
install	~ sth fix equipment, furniture, etc inposition for use, esp by making the necessary connectionswith the supply of electricity, water, etc
installation	installing or being installed
installment	[ instalment: ] one of the portions, usually equal, into which a debt is divided for payment at specified intervals over a fixed period
instalment	any one of the separate but connected parts in which a story is presented over a period of time
instance	~ particular occurrence of sth that happens generally or several times; example; case
instant	coming or happening at once
instantaneous	adj. happening or done immediately
instantly	adv. at once; immediately
instate	to set or establish in a rank or office:INSTALL
instead	adv. as an alternative or replacement
instigate	v. cause to begin or happen; initiate
instigation	n. instigating or being instigated
instigator	 n. person who instigates
instil	 v. ~ sth (in/into sb) cause sb gradually to acquire (a particular desirable quality)
instill	to impart gradually
instinct	natural inborn tendency to behave in a certain way without reasoning or training
instinctive	adj. based on instinct; not coming from training or based on reasoning
institute	n. society or organization for a special (usu social, professional or educational) purpose
institution	the act of instituting
institutional	of, relating to, or characteristic of institutional [
institutionalize to subject to the deleterious effects of confinement in an institution
	institutionalize to subject to the deleterious effects of confinement in an institution
institutionalized [ institutionalize: ] [tr; often passive]	to subject to the deleterious effects of confinement in an institution
instruct	 to direct to do something; order
instruction	~ process of teaching; knowledge or teaching given
instructional	adj. giving instruction; educational
instructive	adj. giving much useful information
instructor	 someone who instructs; teacher
instrument	implement or apparatus used in performing an action, esp for delicate or scientific work
instrumental	~ in doing sth being the means of bringing sth about
instrumentalist	n. player of a musical instrument
instrumentation	arrangement of music for instruments
insubordinate	adj. disobedient; rebellious ;
insubordination	n. being insubordinate
insubstantial	not solid or real; imaginary
insufferable	too extreme to be tolerated; unbearable
insufficiency	a lack of competence ; (pathology) inability of a bodily part or organ to function normally
insufficient	 adj. ~ not sufficient
insular	of an island
insularity	 n. state of being insular
insulate	~ (from/against sth) (with sth) protect (sth) by covering it with a material that prevents sth (esp heat, electricity or sound) from passing through
insulation	 n. insulating or (state of) being insulated
insulator	n. substanceor device for insulating, esp a porcelain support for bare electric wires and cables
insulin	n. substance produced in the pancreas, controlling the absorption of sugar by the body
insult	 v. speak or act in a way that hurts or is intended to hurt the feelings or dignity of be extremely rude to (sb)
insulting	adj. uttering or being an insult
insuperable	adj. (of difficulties) that cannot be overcome
insuppressible	 Incapable of being concealed.
insurance	~ (contract made by a company or society, or by the state, to provide a) guarantee of compensation for loss, damage, sickness, death, etc in return for regular payment
insure	 v. ~ sb/sth make a contract that promises to pay sb an amount of money in case of accident, injury, death, etc, or damage to or loss of sth
insured	covered by insurance
insurgence	 Uprising.
insurgent	adj. in revolt; rebellious
insurmountable	 adj. (of obstacles, difficulties, etc) that cannot be overcome
insurrection	sudden,usu violent, action taken by the population to try to remove the government
insurrectionist	adj. of or taking part in an insurrection
intact	 adj. undamaged; complete
intaglio	(process or technique of) carving deeply into stone or metal
intake	process of taking liquid, gas, etc into a machine, etc ,
intangible	that cannot be clearly or definitely understood or grasped; indefinable
integral	~ necessary for completeness
integrate	v. ~ sth (into sth); ~ A and B/~ A with B combine sth in such a way that it becomes fully a part of sth else
integrated	 adj. with various parts fitting well together
integrating	[ integrate: ] to make or be made into a whole; incorporate or be incorporate
integration	n. ~ integrating or being integrated
integrity	quality of being honest and morally upright
integument	 n. (usu natural) outer covering, eg a skin, husk, rind or shell ,
intellect	power of the mind to reason and acquire knowledge
intellectual	of the intellect
intellectuality	[ intellectual: ] of or relating to the intellect, as opposed to the emotions
intellectually	 [ intellectual: ] of or relating to the intellect, as opposed to the emotions
intelligence	power of learning, understanding and reasoning; mental ability
intelligent	adj. having or showing intelligence
intelligentsia	 n. the intelligentsia those people within a community who areof high intelligence and concern themselves with mattersof culture, learning, etc; intellectuals as a class ;
intelligibility	n. quality of being intelligible
intelligible	 adj. that can be understood
intemperance	 Immoderate action or indulgence, as of the appetites.
intemperate	adj. showing lack of self-control
intend	~ sth (as sth) have (a particular purpose or plan) in mind; mean
intended	planned; meant; desired
intense	(of sensations) very great or severe; extreme
intensification	n.
intensify	v. (cause sth to) become more intense or intensive
intension	The act of stringing or stretching, or state of being strained.
intensity	state or quality of being intense
intensive	concentrating all one's effort on a specific area
intensively	adv.
intent	full of eager interest and concentration
intention	n. ~ (of doing sth/that...) that which one proposes or plans to do
intentional	adj. done on purpose; not accidental; intended
intentionally	adv. deliberately
inter	v. (fml ) put (a corpse) in a grave or tomb; bury
interact	~ act or have an effect on each other
interaction	n. ~ (among/between sb/sth); ~ (with sb/sth) interacting; co-operation
intercede	~ (with sb) (for/on behalf of sb) plead (with sb) to be merciful (to sb)
intercept	v. stop or catch before he or it can reach a destination
intercession	 n. interceding
interchange	~ sth (of two people, etc) give sth to and receive sth from each other; exchange
interchangeable	adj. ~ that can be interchanged, esp without affecting the way in which sth works
interconnect	be connected with each other
interconnection	n. connecting two or more things together
intercontinental adj. between continents
	intercontinental adj. between continents
intercourse	= sexual intercourse (sexual)
interdependence	n.
interdependent	 adj. depending on each other
interdict	(esp law ) prohibit (an action); forbid the use of (sth) ;
interdiction	 n. interdicting
interdisciplinary adj. of or covering more than one area of study
	interdisciplinary adj. of or covering more than one area of study
interest	 n. ~ state of wanting to learn or know (about sb/sth); curiosity; concern
interesting	adj. holding the attention; arousing curiosity
interface	surface common to two areas
interfere	~ ~ (between sb and sb) concern oneself with or take action affecting sb else's affairs without the right to do so or being invited to do so
interference	~ interfering
interim	n. in the interimduring the time that comes between; meantime
interior	inner part; inside
interject	v. ~ sth make (a sudden remark) that interrupts what sb else is saying
interjection	 n. word or phrase used as an exclamation (eg Oh!, Hurray! or For goodness sake!) , !!!
interlace	v. ~ (with sth) (cause things to) be joined by weaving or lacing together; cross (one thing with another) as if woven
interlock	v. ~ (with sth) fit (things which are joined together) firmly so they do not come apart
interlocking	 [ interlock: ] to join or be joined firmly, as by a mutual interconnection of parts
interlocutor	 n. person taking part in a conversation or discussion
interlope	one that intrudes in a place or sphere of activity
interloper	 n. person who is present in a place where he does not belong, interferes in sth which is not his affair, etc; intruder
interlude	short period of time separating the parts of a play, film, etc; interval
intermarriage	n. such marriage
intermediary	 n. ~ person who acts as a means of communication between two or more others
intermediate	 adj. ~ situated or coming between two people, things, etc in time, space, degree, etc
interment	n. burying of a dead body
intermezzo	 n. (music ) short composition to be played between the acts of a drama or an opera, or one that comes between the main movements of a symphony or some other large work
interminable	 adj. going on too long, and usu therefore annoying or boring
interminably	 adv: We had to wait interminably
intermingle	v. ~ (with sb/sth) (cause people, ideas, substances, etc to) mix together
intermission	 n. period of time during which sth stops before continuing; interval; pause
intermit	 To cause to cease temporarily.
intermittent	 adj. continually stopping and then starting again; not constant
intermittently	 adv.
intern	 ,
internal	of or on the inside
internally	* a theory which is not internally consistent
international	adj. of, carried on by or existing between two or more nations
internationally	adv: an internationally known pianist
interne	= intern2
internecine	adj. causing destruction to both sides
internee	 n. person who is interned
internment	 n.
interplanetary	 adj. between planets
interplay	n. ~ way in which two or more things have an effect on each other; interaction
interpolate	make (a remark, etc) which interrupts a conversation, speech, etc
interpolation	n. interpolating or being interpolated
interpose	~ sb/sth (between A and B) place sb/sth between others
interposition	n. interposing or being interposed
interpret	explain (sth which is not easily understandable)
interpretable	[ interpret: ] vt. to clarify or explain the meaning of; elucidate
interpretation	 n. interpreting
interpretative	 adj. (Brit)(also esp US interpretive / In5t\
interpreter	n. person who gives a simultaneous translation of words spoken in another language
interpretive	 [ interpretative: ] adj. of, involving, or providing interpretation; expository
interregnum	period when a state has no normal or lawful ruler, esp at the end of a sovereign's reign and before the appointment of a successor
interrelate	v. ~ (with sth) (cause parts, etc to) be connected very closely so that they have an effect on each other
interrelated	 adj. mutually related
interrelation	interrelationship ns ~ mutual relationship
interrogate	v. ~ sb question sb aggressively or closely and for a long time
interrogation	n. interrogating or being interrogated
interrogative	asking or seeming to ask a question; inquiring
interrogatory	adj. interrogative(1)
interrupt	break the continuity of temporarily
interrupted	broken, discontinued, or hindered
interruption	 n. interrupting or being interrupted
intersect	divide by going across it
intersection	intersecting or being intersected
intersperse	v. ~ B among/between/in/throughout A; ~ A with B vary sth by placing other things at irregular intervals among it
interstate	 adj. between states, esp in the USA
interstellar	 adj. between the stars
interstice	 n. ~ (of/between/in sth) (fml ) very small gap or crack
intertwine	 v. ~ (with sth) be twisted so as to become joined; twist (things) so as to join them
interval	~ time between two events
intervale	A low tract of land between hills, especially along a river.
intervene	(of time) come or be between
intervention	 n. ~ (instance of) interfering or becoming involved, eg to prevent sth happening
interview	meeting at which sb (eg sb applying for a job) is asked questions to find out if he is suitable
interweave	~ (sth) (with sth) be woven or weave (sth) together
intestacy	n. condition of being intestate
intestate	adj. not having made a will before death occurs
intestinal	 adj. of the intestines
intestine	n. long tube in the body which helps to digest food and carries it from the stomach to the anus
intimacy	state of being intimate; close friendship or relationship ;
intimate	~ having or being a very close and friendly relationship
intimation	 n. intimating
intimidate	 v. ~ sb frighten sb (in order to make him do sth)
intimidating	 adj. frightening, esp because of seeming difficulty or impossibility
intimidation	 n. intimidating or being intimidated
into	(moving) to a point within (an enclosed space or volume)
intolerable	adj. too bad to be borne or endured
intolerably	adv: intolerably rude
intolerance	Inability or unwillingness to bear or endure.
intolerant	not tolerant
intonation	intoning
intoxicant	 n. intoxicating substance, esp alcoholic drink
intoxicate	 To make drunk.
intracellular	Occurring or situated within a cell.
intractable	adj. not easily controlled or dealt with; hard to manage
intramural	intended for full-time students living within a college
intransigence	state of stubborn; unwillingness to compromise
intransigent	 adj. unwilling to change one's views or be co-operative; stubborn
intransitive	 adj. (of verbs) used without an object
intrastate	 adj. within one state, esp of the USA
intravenous	adj. within a vein or veins
intrepid	 adj. fearless; brave
intrepidity	n. fearlessness
intrepidness	 [ intrepid: ] "intre'pidity, in'trepidness noun
intricacy	n. quality of being inticate
intricate	adj. made up of many small parts put together in a complex way, and therefore difficult to follow or understand
intricately	adv.
intrigue	~ (against sb) make and carry out secret plans or plots to do sth bad
intrigued	[ intrigue: ] vt. to make interested or curious
intriguing	 adj. full of interest, esp because unusual; fascinating
intrinsic	adj. belonging naturally; existing within, not coming from outside
intrinsically	adv: He is not intrinsically bad
introduce	~ sb make sb known formally to sb else by giving the person's name, or by giving each person's name to the other
introduction	~ formal presentation of one person to another, in which each is told the other's name
introductory	 adj. acting as an introduction
introgression	Entrance.
intromit	 To insert.
introspect	 v. examine or be concerned with one's own thoughts, feelings and motives
introspection	n. introspecting
introspective	adj. inclined to introspect
introversion	 n. state of being introverted
introvert	n. person who is more interested in his own thoughts and feelings than in things outside himself, and is often shy and unwilling to speak or join in activities with others
introverted	adj. having the quality of an introvert
intrude	v. ~ on/upon sb/sth; ~ (oneself/sth) into sth (esp fml ) put (oneself/sth) into a place or situation where one/it is unwelcome or unsuitable
intrusion	n. ~ intruding
intrusive	adj. intruding
intuit	 v. sense (sth) by intuition
intuition	(power of) understanding things (eg a situation, sb's feelings) immediately, without the need for conscious reasoning or study
intuitional	[ intuition: ] knowledge or belief obtained neither by reason nor by perception
intuitive	adj. of or coming from intuition
intuitively	adv: He seemed to know intuitively how to do it
intumescence	 n. (process or condition of) swelling
inundate	~ sth(fml ) cover sth with water by overflowing; flood
inundation	 n. (instance of) flooding
inure	to accustom to accept something undesirable
inured	 accustomed to/adapted
invade	~ (sth) (with sth) enter (a country or territory) with armed forces in order to attack, damage or occupy it
invalid	not properly based or able to be upheld by reasoning
invalidate	 v. make invalid
invaluable	 adj. ~ of value too high to be measured; extremely valuable
invariable	 adj. never changing; always the same; constant
invariably	 adv: She invariably arrives late
invariance	an entity, quantity, etc., that is unaltered by a particular transformation of coordinates
invasion	 n. invading or being invaded
invasive	 adj. tending to spread harmfully
invective	n. violent attack in words; abusive language
inveigh	v. ~ against sb/sth attack sb or sth violently in words
inveigle	 v. ~ sb into sth/doing sth persuade sb to go somewhere or do sth by using flattery and deception
invent	make or design (sth that did not exist before); create by thought
invention	action of inventing
inventive	of or for invention
inventiveness	[ inventive: ] skilled or quick at contriving; ingenious; resourceful
inventor	 n. person who invents things
inventory	n. detailed list, eg of goods, furniture, jobs to be done
inverse	adj. reversed in position, direction or relation
inversely	adv: inversely proportional to each other
inversion	n. inverting or being inverted; instance of this
invert	 v. put upside down or in the opposite order, position or arrangement
invertebrate	 n, adj not having a backbone or spinal column
inverted	 [ invert: ] to turn or cause to turn upside down or inside out
invest	~ (in sth/with sb) use (money) to buy shares, property, etc, in order to earn interest or bring profit
investigate	find out and examine in order to obtain the truth
investigation	n. investigating or being investigated
investigative	adjs. of or concerned with investigating
investigator	 n. person who investigates
investiture	n. ceremony of conferring an office, a rank or power on sb
investment	~ investing of money
investor	 n. person who invests money
inveterate	(of bad feelings, habits, etc) that have lasted a long time and seem likely to continue
inveterately	 adv.
invidious	adj. likely to cause resentment or unpopularity
invigilate	 v. ~ (Brit) be present during (an examination) to make sure that it is properly conducted, that no cheating occurs, etc
invigilation	 n. invigilating or being invigilated
invigilator	n. person who invigilates
invigorate	 v. make feel more lively and healthy
invigorated	[ invigorate: ] to give vitality and vigour to; animate; brace; refresh
invigorating	 adj. that invigorates
invigoration	 [ invigorate: ] to give vitality and vigour to; animate; brace; refresh
invincible	 adj. too strong to be overcome or defeated
inviolable	 adj. that must not be violated or dishonoured
inviolate	adj. ~ (fml ) that has not been or cannot be violated or harmed
invisible	~ that cannot be seen; not visible
invitation	inviting or being invited
invite	~ sb ask sb in a friendly way to go somewhere or do sth
inviting	 adj. tempting; attractive
invocation	 => invoke
invoice	n. ~ (commerce ) list of goods sold or services provided with the price(s) charged, esp sent as a bill
invoke	use (sth) as a reason for one's action
involuntary	adj. done without intention; done unconsciously
involute	complex or intricate
involuted	[ involute: ] complex, intricate, or involved
involution	 Complication.
involve	make necessary as a condition or result; entail
involved	complicated in thought or form
involvement	n.
invulnerable	~ that cannot be wounded, hurt or damaged by attack
inward	situated within; inner
inwardly	in mind or spirit
iodine	non-metallic element found in sea water and seaweed .
ion	n. electrically charged particle resulting from the breakdown of atoms through solution in water and making this solution a conductor of electricity
ionize	to change or become changed into ions
iota	the Greek letter I, i I, i
irascibility	 n. tendency to become angry; angry behaviour ;
irascible	adj. (of a person) easily made angry
irate	adj. angry
ire	n. anger
iridescence	a lustrous rainbowlike play of color caused by differential refraction of light waves (as from an oil slick, soap bubble, or fish scales) that tends to change as the angle of view changes
iridescent	showing colours like those of the rainbow
iris	coloured part round the pupil of the eye .
irk	v. be tiresome to (sb); annoy
irksome	adj. tiresome; annoying
iron	common hard silver-white metallic element capable of being magnetized and used in various forms
ironclad	a:BINDING
ironic	 adj. using or expressing irony; full of irony
ironically	in an ironic manner
ironwork	 n. things made of iron, eg gratings, rails, railings
ironworks	n. ; place where iron is smelted or where heavy iron goods are made
irony	expression of one's meaning by saying the direct opposite of one's thoughts in order to be emphatic, amusing, sarcastic, etc
irradiance	 Luster.
irradiate	~ sth (with sth) send rays of light upon sth; subject sth to sunlight, ultraviolet rays or radioactivity ;
irradiation	the act or process of irradiating or the state of being irradiated
irradicable	impossible to eradicate : DEEP-ROOTED
irrational	not guided by reason; illogical or absurd
irrationality	n.
irrationally	 adv.
irreconcilable	 adj. ~ (with sb/sth) (of people) that cannot be reconciled
irredeemable	(of government annuities, bonds, shares, etc) that cannot be terminated by repayment ,
irredeemably	 adv. (fml )
irreducible	that cannot be reduced or made smaller
irrefragable	 not to be disproved; indisputable
irrefutable	adj. that cannot be proved false
irrefutably	adv: irrefutably the greatest living violinist
irregular	not regular in shape, arrangement, etc; uneven
irregularity	state or quality of being irregular
irregularly	adv.
irrelevance	n. state of being irrelevant
irrelevant	 adj. ~ not connected (with sth); not relevant (to sth)
irreligious	adj. feeling no interest in, or feeling hostile to, religion; irreverent
irremediable	 adj. that cannot be remedied or corrected
irremediably	 adv.
irreparable	adj. that cannot be put right, restored or repaired
irrepressible	adj. that cannot be held back or controlled
irreproachable	 adj. freefrom blame or fault
irresistible	too strong tobe resisted
irresolute	 adj. feeling or showing uncertainty; hesitating ;
irresoluteness	 [ irresolute: ] adj. lacking resolution; wavering; hesitating
irrespective	 irrespective of prep not taking account of or considering
irresponsibility n.
	irresponsibility n.
irresponsible	adj. not showing a proper sense of responsibility
irretrievable	adj. that cannot be retrieved or remedied
irreverence	The quality showing or expressing a deficiency of veneration, especially for sacred things.
irreverent	 adj. feeling or showing no respect for sacred things
irreversible	 adj. that cannot be reversed or revoked; unalterable
irrevocable	adj. that cannot be changed or revoked; final
irrigate	supply with water (by means of streams, reservoirs, channels, pipes, etc)
irrigation	 n.
irritability	 n.
irritable	adj. easily annoyed or made angry; touchy ;
irritant	 adj. causing irritation; irritating
irritate	make angry, annoyed or impatient
irritating	 [ irritate: ] to annoy or anger (someone)
irritation	 n. irritating or being irritated
irrupt	 to enter forcibly or suddenly
irruption	n. ~ (into sth)sudden and violent entry; bursting in
Islam	Muslimreligion, based on the teaching of the prophet Muhammad
island	piece of land surrounded by water
isle	 n. (esp in poetry and proper names ) island
islet	n. small island
isobar	 n. line on a map, esp a weather chart, joining places with the same atmospheric pressure at a particular time
isochronous	Relating to or denoting equal intervals of time.
isolate	~sb/sth put or keep sb/sth entirely apart from other people or things; separate sb/sth ;
isolationism	 n. ~ policy of not participating in the affairs of other countries or groups
isolationist	 n, adj supporting isolationism
isothermal	 Having or marking equality of temperature.
isotope	n. one of two or more forms of a chemical element with different atomic weight and different nuclear properties but the same chemical properties
issue	outgoing; outflow
isthmus	n. narrow strip of land joining two larger areas of land that would otherwise be separated by water
it	 animal or thing mentioned earlier or being observed now
Italian	adj. of Italy, its culture, language or people
item	single article or unit in a list, etc
iterate	v. ~sth (fml ) say sth again and again; make (an accusation, a demand, etc) repeatedly ;
itinerant	adj. travelling from place to place
itinerary	n. plan for, or record of, a journey; route
itinerate	to travel from place to place, to peregrinate
its	possess det of or belonging to a thing, an animal or a baby
itself	)
ivory	creamy-white bone-like substance forming the tusks of elephants, walruses, etc
jab	~ (at sb/sth) (with sth); ~ sb/sth (with sth) poke or push at sb/sth roughly, usu with sth sharp or pointed
jabber	~ talk rapidly in what seems to be a confused manner
jack	device for raising heavy weights off the ground, esp one for raising the axle of a motor vehicle so that a wheel may be changed ,
jacket	short coat with sleeves
jade	hard, usu green, stone from which ornaments, etc are carved
jaded	adj. tired and lacking zest, usu after too much of sth
jag	bout of heavy drinking; spree ;
jagged	 adj. with rough, uneven, often sharp, edges; notched ; V
jaguar	 n. large spotted memberof the cat family inhabiting parts of central America
jail	 = gaol
jam	sweet substance made by boiling fruit with sugar until it is thick, usu preserved in jars, etc
jamb	 n. vertical post at the side of a doorway, window frame, fireplace, etc
jamboree	large party; celebration ;
janitor	n. = caretaker
January	n. the first month of the year, coming before February
japan	n. hard shiny black varnish
Japanese	 of, relating to, or characteristic of Japan, its people, or their language
jape	 n. joke played on sb
jar	cylindrical container, usu made of glass
jargon	 n. technical or specialized words used by a particular group of people and difficult for others to understand
jarring	[ jar: ] a wide-mouthed container that is usually cylindrical, made of glass or earthenware, and without handles
jaundice	disease caused by an excess of bile in the blood which makes the skin and the whites of the eyes become abnormally yellow
jaundiced	adj. affected by jealousy, spite, etc; bitter
jaunt	n. short journey, made for pleasure
jauntily	 adv: swagger jauntily
jaunty	 adj. feeling or showing cheerfulness and self-confidence; sprightly
jaw	either of the bone structures containing the teeth
jazz	music of American Negro origin, characterized by the use of improvisation and strong, often syncopated, rhythms
jazzy	of or like jazz
jealous	feeling or showing fear or resentment of possible rivals in love or affection
jealousy	 n. being jealous
jeans	n. trousers of strong cotton for informal wear
jeer	 v. ~ laugh at or mock (sb/sth)
jejune	(of writings) dull and uninteresting; unsatisfying to the mind
jelly	clear (fruit-flavoured) food substance made of liquid set with gelatine, usu prepared in a mould, which shakes when moved
jellyfish	n. sea animal with a jelly-like body and stinging tentacles
jeopardize	 put in danger
jeopardy	 n. in jeopardy in danger of harm, loss or destruction
jeremiad	 n. long, sad and complaining story of troubles, misfortunes, etc
jerk	sudden pull, push, start, stop, twist, lift or throw
jerky	adj. making abrupt starts and stops; not moving or talking smoothly
jest	thing said or done to cause amusement; joke ;
jesting	[ jest: ] something done or said for amusement; joke
Jesuit	member of the Society of Jesus, a Roman Catholic religiousorder
jesuitical	 adj. involving deception or dishonesty
Jesus	n. = christ
jet	aircraft powered by a jet engine
jetsam	goods thrown overboard from a ship in distress to lighten it; such goods washed up ashore ;
jettison	throw or eject from a ship in distress, or from an aeroplane, a spacecraft, etc
jewel	precious stone (eg adiamond or a ruby)
jeweler	[ jeweller: ] a person whose business is the cutting, polishing, or setting of gemstones or the making, repairing, or selling of jeweller
jeweller	 n. person who sells, makes or repairs jewellery or watches
jewellery	n. ornaments, eg rings and necklaces, esp made of a valuable metal and sometimes set with jewels
jewelry	[ jewellery: ] objects that are worn for personal adornment, such as bracelets, rings, necklaces, etc., considered collectively
Jewish	 adj. of the Jews
jib	small triangular sail in front of the mainsail
jibe	 to be in accord: AGREE
jigsaw	picture, map, etc pasted on cardboard or wood and cut into irregular shapes that have to be fitted together again
jilt	 v. leave with whom one has had a close emotional relationship, esp suddenly and unkindly
jingle	metallic ringing or clinking sound, as of coins, keys or small bells
jingo	One of a party in Great Britain in favor of spirited and demonstrative foreign policy.
jingoism	 n. extreme and unreasonable belief that one's own country is best, together with a warlike attitude towards other countries
jingoist	 n. person who has such a belief
jingoistic	 adj. ,jingoistic remarks
jink	 v. move quickly or suddenly with sharp turns, usu to avoid being caught; dodge ; ,
jinx	 n. ~ (on sb/sth) (infml ) (person or thing that is thought to bring) bad luck (to sb/sth); curse
jitter	 v. feel nervous; behave nervously
jittery	adj. nervous; frightened ;
job	n. the patience of job
jobbery	n. use of unfair or corrupt methods in order to gain a financial or political advantage
jockey	 n. person who rides a horse, usu a professional competing in races
jocose	 adj. humorous; playful ;
jocular	meant as a joke; humorous
jocularly	adv: Philip, jocularly known as Flip ,
jocund	 adj. merry; cheerful ;
jog	push or knock (sb/sth) slightly
joggle	 v. move or shake slightly, usu up and down ,
join	~ sth onto sth/on; ~ A to B; ~ A and B fasten one thing to another; connect or combine two things
joint	structure in the body of an animal by which bones are fitted together
jointly	adv: a jointly owned business
joke	thing said or done to cause amusement, laughter, etc
jollity	n. state of being jolly
jolly	happy and cheerful
jolt	move with sudden jerky movements
jostle	~ push roughly against (sb), usu in a crowd
jot	v. (phr v) jot sth down make a quick, usu short, written note of sth
journal	newspaper or periodical, esp one that is serious and deals with a specialized subject
journalist	 a person whose occupation is journalism
journalize	 To keep a diary.
journey	n. (distance covered in) travelling, usu by land, from one place to another, often far away
joust	v. fight on horseback with lances
jovial	 adj. very cheerful and good-humoured; merry
joy	feeling of great happiness
joyful	 adj. filled with, showing or causing joy
joyless	adj. without joy; gloomy or miserable
joyous	 adj. filled with, showing or causing joy
jubilant	 adj. ~ (about/at/over sth) showing great happiness, esp because of a success
jubilation	 n. great happiness, esp because of a success
judge	public officer with authority to decide cases in a lawcourt
judgement	~ opinion about sth
judgment	 The faculty by the exercise of which a deliberate conclusion is reached.
judicature	 n. administration of justice
judicial	of or by a court of law; of a judge or of judgement
judiciary	n. judges of a country collectively
judicious	adj. showing or havinggood sense
judiciousness	n.
jug	(US pitcher) deep vessel, with a handle and a lip, for holding and pouring liquids
juggernaut	very large articulated lorry
juggle	~ throw (a number of objects, usu balls) up into the air, catch them and throw them into the air again and again, keeping one or more in the air at the same time
jugglery	 The art or practice of sleight of hand.
jugular	adj. of the neck or throat
juice	liquid obtained from a fruit; drink made from this
juicy	containing a lot of juice and being enjoyable to eat; succulent
July	 n. the seventh month of the year, next after June
jumble	 to mix into a confused or disordered mass
jumbo	adj. unusually large; enormous
jump	act of jumping
junction	place where roads or railway lines meet
juncture	 n. at this juncture (fml ) at a particular, esp important, stage in a series of events
June	 n. the sixth month of the year, next after May
jungle	area of land, usu in a tropical country, that is covered with a thick growth of trees and tangled plants
jungly	 adj. of, like or from the jungle or its inhabitants
junior	~ lower in rank or standing (than sb)
junk	things that are considered useless or of little value
junket	sweet custard-like pudding made of milk curdled with rennet, and often sweetened and flavoured ,
junta	n. group, esp of military officers, who rule a country after taking power by force in a revolution
Jupiter	n. the largest planet of the solar system, fifth in order from the sun
juridical	adj. of law or legal proceedings
jurisdiction	 n. authority to carry out justice and to interpret and apply laws; right to exercise legal authority
jurisprudence	n. science or philosophy of law
juror	n. member of a jury
jury	group of people in a lawcourt who have been chosen to listen to the facts in a case and to decide whether the accused person is guilty or not guilty
just	acting or being in accordance with what is morally right and proper; fair
justice	right and fair behaviour or treatment
justifiable	adj. that can be justified
justifiably	adv: justifiably cautious, indignant, proud, etc
justification	~ acceptable reason (for doing sth)
justify	show that (sb/sth) is right, reasonable or just
jut	v. (phr v) jut out stand out (from sth); be out of line (with the surrounding surface); stick out
juvenile	young person who is not yet adult
juxtapose	v. place (people or things) side by side or very close together, esp to show a contrast
juxtaposition	positioning close together (or side by side)
kaleidoscope	 n. toy consisting of a tube containing small loose pieces of coloured glass, etc and mirrors which reflect these to form changing patterns when the tube is turned
kaleidoscopic	adj.
kangaroo	 n. Australian animal that jumps along on its strong hind legs, the female carrying its young in a pouch on the front of its body .
kaput	adj. broken; ruined; not working properly
karate	 n. Japanese system of unarmed combat in which the hands, feet, etc are used as weapons
karma	n. (in Buddhism and Hinduism) sum of a person's actions in one of his successive lives, believed to decide his fate in the next ,
kayak	at canoe canoe. Eskimo canoe made of light wood covered with sealskins
keen	~ (to do sth/that...) eager; enthusiastic
keenly	 adv.
keep	continue to be in the specified condition or position; remain or stay
keeper	person who looks after animals in a zoo or a collection of items in a museum
keepsake	 n. gift, usu small and often not very costly, that is kept in memory of the giver or previous owner
ken	n. beyond/outside one's ken not within one's range of knowledge
kennel	shelter for a pet dog
kept	 pt, pp of keep1
kerchief	square piece of cloth worn on the head or round the neck, esp by women ,
kerfuffle	n. fuss; noise; excitement
kernel	soft and usu edible part inside a nut or fruit stone .
kerosene	 another name (esp. U.S. and Canadian) for: paraffin
ketchup	n. thick sauce made from tomatoes, vinegar, etc and used cold as a seasoning
kettle	container with a spout, lid and handle, used for boiling water
key	metal instrument shaped so that it will move the bolt of a lock
keyboard	.
keyhole	n. hole through which a key is put into a lock
kick	hit (sb/sth) with the foot
kid	(infml ) child or young person
kidnap	 v. steal (sb) away by force and illegally, esp in order to obtain money or other (esp political) demands
kidnapper	n: The kidnappers have demanded million for his safe release. 100
kidney	either of a pair of organs in the body that remove waste products from the blood and produce urine
kill	cause death or cause the death of
killjoy	n. person who spoils the enjoymentof others
kiln	 n. oven for baking pottery or bricks, drying hops or wood, burning lime, etc
kilo	 n. kilogram
kilocalorie	another name for: Calori
kilogram	 n. basic unit of mass in the SI system; 1000 grams ; .
kiloliter	One thousand liters.
kilometer	A length of 1,000 meters.
kilowatt	 n. unit of electrical power; 1000 watts , 1000
kimono	 n. long loose Japanese robe with wide sleeves, worn with a sash
kin	one's family and relatives
kind	 adj. friendly and thoughtful to others
kindle	catch fire
kindliness	 n.
kindling	 n. small dry pieces of wood, etc for lighting fires
kindly	in a kind manner
kindness	quality of being kind
kindred	family relationship
kinetic	adj. of or produced by movement
king	male ruler of an independent state, usu inheriting the position by right of birth
kingdom	country or state ruled by a king or queen
kingship	 n. condition of being, or official position of, a king
kink	sharp twist in sth that is normally straight, eg a wire, rope, pipe, hair, etc
kinky	adj. bizarre or abnormal, esp in sexual behaviour
kinsfolk	 n. = kin
kinship	blood relationship
kinsman	n. (fml ) male relative
kiosk	,
kismet	 n. destiny; fate ;
kiss	touch with the lips to show affection or as a greeting
kissable	 adj. inviting kisses
kit	clothing and personal equipment of a soldier, etc or a traveller
kitchen	room or building in which meals are cooked or prepared
kite	toy consisting of a light framework covered with paper, cloth, etc that is flown in the wind at the end of a long string
kith	 n. kith and kin friends and relations
kitsch	 n. cheap and showy vulgarity or pretentiousness in art, design, etc
kitten	young cat
kleptomania	n. illness that causes an uncontrollable desire to steal things, often with no wish to possess the things stolen
kleptomaniac	 n. person suffering from kleptomania ; . adj
knack	skill at performing some special task; ability
knackered	adj. exhausted; worn out
knave	= jack1 4
knavery	n. dishonesty; trickery ;
knead	press and stretch with the hands to form a firm smooth paste
knee	joint between the thigh and lower part of the human leg; corresponding joint in animals ; .
kneecap	n. small bone covering the front of the knee joint
kneel	v. =>Usage at dream dream. ~ (down) go down on one or both knees; rest on the knee(s)
knell	sound of a bell rung slowly after a death or at a funeral
knew	 pt of know
knickknack	 A small article, more for ornament that use.
knife	sharp blade with a handle, used for cutting or as a weapon
knight	man to whom the sovereign has given a rank of honour, lower than that of baronet, having the title `Sir' used before the first name, with or without the surname , Sir
knighthood	title and rank of a knight
knit	~ sth (for sb) make (a garment or fabric) by forming wool, silk, etc yarn into connecting loops, either by hand (using long needles) or on a machine
knob	round handle (of a door, drawer, etc)
knock	sharp blow
knocker	hinged metal hammer attached to a door, used for knocking by sb outside who wants the door to be opened .
knoll	n. small round hill or mound
knot	fastening made by tying a piece or pieces of string, rope, etc
knotty	(of timber) full of knots
know	 v. have (sth) in one's mind or memory as a result of experience or learning or information
know-how	 n. practical (contrasted with theoretical) knowledge or skill in an activity
knowingly	intentionally
knowledge	understanding
knowledgeable	adj. ~ well-informed
knowledgeably	adv: speak knowledgeably on the subject
knuckle	bone at the finger-joint
krill	n. mass of tiny shellfish eaten by whales
kudos	n. honour and glory; credit1(
lab	n. laboratory
label	piece of paper, cloth, metal, etc on or beside an object and describing its nature, name, owner, destination, etc
labile	 readily or continually undergoing chemical, physical, or biological change or breakdown:UNSTABLE
laboratory	 n. room or building used for research, experiments, testing, etc
labored	lacking ease of expression
laborer	[ labourer: ] a person engaged in physical work, esp. of an unskilled kin
laboring	 [ labor: ] productive work, esp. physical toil done for wages
laborious	needing much effort
labour	physicalor mental work
laboured	slow and difficult
labourer	 n. person who does heavy unskilled work
labyrinth	n. complicated network of winding passages, paths, etc through which it is difficult to find one's way
labyrinthine	 to entangle the state of affairs
lace	delicate fabric with an ornamental openwork design of threads
lacerate	injure by tearing
laceration	 n. tearing of the flesh
lacework	 work consisting of (or resembling) lace fabric
lachrymose	 adj. in the habit of weeping; tearful; mournful
lack	be without (sth); have less than enough of
lackadaisical	adj. lacking vigour and determination; unenthusiastic
lackey	footman or manservant, usu in special uniform ,
lackluster	 lacking brilliance or vitality ; lacking luster or shine
lacklustre	 adj. lacking force, brilliance, or vitalit
laconic	adj. using few words; terse
laconically	adv: `Too bad,' she replied laconically. ,
laconism	 economy of expression
lacquer	varnish used on metal or wood to give a hard glossy surface
lactate	(of mammals) to produce or secrete mil
lactation	production of milk in the breasts of women or the udders of female animals
lacteal	Milky.
lactic	 adj. of or from milk
lad	boy; young man
ladder	structure for climbing up and down sth, consisting of two upright lengths of wood, metal or rope joined to each other by crossbars used as steps .
laddie	 n. boy; young man ;
lade	 to put cargo or freight on board (a ship, etc.) or (of a ship, etc.) to take on cargo or freight
laden	~ loaded or weighted
ladle	n. long-handled cup-shaped spoon for serving or transferring liquids
lady	woman of good manners and dignified behaviour
ladybird	 n. small flying beetle, reddish-brown or yellow with black spots
lag	v. ~ (behind sb/sth); ~ (behind) go too slow; fail to keep pace with others
laggard	n. person who lags behind
lagoon	salt-water lake separated from the open sea by sandbanks or coral reefs
laid	 pt, pp of lay
lain	 pp of lie
lair	sheltered place where a wild animal regularly sleeps or rests; den
laity	all the members of a Church who are not ordained clergymen; laymen ;
lake	large area of water surrounded by land
lamb	young sheep
lambaste	hit (sb) hard and repeatedly; thrash ;
lambent	moving over a surface with soft flickering radiance
lame	unable to walk normally because of an injury or defect
lament	 v. ~ (for/over sb/sth) feel or express great sorrow or regret for (sb/sth)
lamentable	 adj. regrettable; deplorable
lamentation	lamenting
laminate	make by bonding thin layers together
lamp	device for giving light, either by the use of electricity or by burning gas or oil
lampoon	n. piece of writing that attacks and ridicules a person, a book, an institution, etc
lampooner	[ lampoon: ] a satire in prose or verse ridiculing a person, literary work, etc.
lampoonery	 [ lampoon: ] a satire in prose or verse ridiculing a person, literary work, etc.
lamp-post	n. tall post supporting a street lamp .
lance	weapon used for catching fish, etc with a long wooden shaft and a pointed steel head
lancet	sharp pointed two-edged surgical instrument used for opening abscesses, etc
land	solid part of the earth's surface
landfill	 a system of trash and garbage disposal in which the waste is buried between layers of earth to build up low-lying land
landholder	 n. owner or tenant of land
landing	act of coming or bringing to land
landlady	woman who lets rooms, etc to tenants
landless	 adj. not owning land
landlocked	 surrounded entirely or almost entirely by land
landlord	person who lets land, a house, a room, etc to a tenant
landmark	 n. object, etc easily seen and recognized from a distance
landscape	scenery of an area of land
landslide	,
lane	narrow country road or track, usu between hedges or banks
language	system of sounds, words, patterns, etc used by humans to communicate thoughts and feelings
languid	adj. lacking vigour or energy; slow-moving
languish	lack or lose vitality
languor	tiredness or laziness of mind and body; listlessness ;
languorous	 adj.
lank	straight and limp
lanky	adj. (of a person) ungracefully tall and thin
lantern	light for use outdoors in a transparent case that protects it fromthe wind, etc
lap	area formed by the upper part of a seated person's thighs
lapidary	of gems or stones, esp of their cutting, polishing or engraving
lapse	small error, esp one caused by forgetfulness or inattention
larceny	n. (instance of) theft of personal goods
larch	n. tall deciduous tree of the pine family, with small cones and needle-like leaves .
lard	 n. white greasy substance made from the melted fat of pigs and used in cooking
larder	 n. cupboard or small room used for storing food
large	of considerable size, extent or capacity
largely	adv. to a great extent; chiefly
largess	generous giving of money or gifts, esp to sb of lower rank or status
largesse	also :something so given
largish	adj. fairly large
lariat	 n. length of rope for catching or tethering a horse; lasso
lark	any of several small songbirds, esp the skylark
larva	n. insect in the first stage of its life, after coming out of the egg
laryngitis	 n. inflammation of the larynx
larynx	 n. (anatomy)boxlike space at the top of the windpipe, containing the vocal cords which produce the voice
lascivious	 adj. feeling, expressing or causing sexual desire
laser	n. device that generates an intense and highly controlled beam of light
lash	flexible part of a whip
lassie	 A little lass.
lassitude	n. tiredness of mind or body
lasso	n. long rope with a noose at one end, used for catching horses and cattle
last	coming after all others in time or order
lasting	adj. continuing for a long time
latch	fastening for a gate or door, consisting of a bar that is lifted from its catch, groove, hole, etc by a lever
late	after the proper or usual time
lately	 adv. in recent times; recently
latency	n. latency period stage of personal development from the age of about five to the start of puberty
latent	 adj. existing but not yet active, developed or visible
later	the comparative of: late
lateral	adj. of, at, from or towards the side
lathe	n. machine that shapes pieces of wood, metal, etc by holding and turning them against a fixed cutting tool
Latin	n. language of ancient Rome and the official language of its empire
latish	 adj. adv fairly late
latitude	distance of a place north or south of the equator, measured in degrees .
latter	 adj. near to the end of a period
lattice	framework of crossed laths or bars with spaces between, used as a screen, fence, support for climbing plants, etc
laud	 v. praise (sb/sth); glorify
laudable	 adj. deserving praise; praiseworthy
laudation	High praise.
laudatory	adj. expressing or giving praise
laugh	make the sounds and movements of the face and body that express lively amusement, joy, contempt, etc
laughingly	in an amused manner
laughter	 n. act, sound or manner of laughing
launch	put into motion; send on its course
laundress	n. woman who earns money by laundering
laundry	business where clothes, sheets, etc are laundered
laureate	 n. = Poet Laureate (poet)
laurel	evergreen shrub with smooth glossy leaves
laurels	a small Mediterranean lauraceous evergreen tree, Laurus nobilis, with glossy aromatic leaves, used for flavouring in cooking, and small blackish berries
lava	hot liquid rock that comes out of a volcano
lavatory	device, usu consisting of a bowl connected to a drain, used for disposing of waste matter from the body
lave	 wash
lavender	plant with sweet-smelling pale purple flowers
lavish	~ ~ (in doing sth) giving or producing generously or in large quantities
lavishly	 adv.
law	rule established by authority or custom, regulating the behaviour of members of a community, country, etc
lawgiver	 A legislator.
lawmaker	 n. person who makes laws; legislator ;
lawn	 n. area of closely-cut grass in the garden of a house or a public park, or used for a game
lawsuit	n. process of bringing a dispute, claim, etc before a court of law for settlement
lawyer	 n. person who is trained and qualified in legal matters, esp a solicitor
lax	adj. not sufficiently strict or severe; negligent
laxative	 n, adj causing or helping the bowels to empty
laxity	 the quality of being lax and neglectful
lay	v. (pt, pp laid / leId; led/)
layabout	 n. lazy person who avoids work
layer	thickness of material laid over a surface or forming a horizontal division
layman	person who does not have an expert knowledge of a subject
layout	 n. way in which the parts of sth are arranged according to a plan
lazily	 adv: a river flowing lazily beside the meadow
lazy	unwilling to work; doing little work
lea	n. area of open grassland; meadow ;
leach	make percolatethrough soil, ore, ash, etc
lead	heavy soft metal of dull greyish colour, used for water pipes, in roofing, as a radiation shield, etc and which is mixed with other metals to form alloys .
leaden	dull, heavy or slow
leader	person or thing that leads
leaderless	 adj. a leaderless rabble
leadership	being a leader
leading	n. space between lines of print
leaf	 n. one of the (usu green and flat) parts of a plant, growing from a stem or branch or directly from the root
leafless	 adj. having no leaves
leaflet	printed sheet of paper, usu folded and free of charge, containing information
leafstalk	the stalk attaching a leaf to a stem or branch
league	group of people or countries combined for a particular purpose
leak	hole, crack, etc through which liquid or gas may wrongly get in or out
leakage	leaking
lean	(of people and animals) without much flesh; thin and healthy
leaning	n. tendency; inclination
Leaning Tower Pisa 
	Leaning Tower Pisa 
leap	 v. jump vigorously
learn	v. (pt, pp learnt / l\
learned	having much knowledge acquired by study
learner	n. person who is gaining knowledge or skill
learning	 n. knowledge obtained by study
lease	contract by which the owner of land, a building, etc allows another person to use it for a specified time, usu in return for rent
leash	= lead
least	indef det, indef pron smallest in size, amount, extent, etc ; . (det)
leather	material made by tanning animal skins
leave	go away from (a person or place)
leaven	substance used to make dough rise before it is baked to make bread
leaves	 pl of leaf
leave-taking	 n. act of saying goodbye
lecherous	adj. having or showing an excessive interest in and desire for sexual pleasure
lechery	n. excessive interest in sexual pleasure
lectern	n. high sloping desk made to hold a lecturer's notes, a Bible in church, etc
lecture	~ (on sth) talk giving information about a subject to an audience or a class, often as part of a teaching programme
lecturer	 n. person who gives lectures, esp at a college or university
lectureship	n. post of lecturer
led	pt, pp of lead
ledge	narrow horizontal shelf coming out from a wall, cliff, etc
ledger	book in which a bank, business firm, etc records its financial accounts
lee	n. part or side of sth providing shelter against the wind
leer	 n. sly unpleasant look suggesting lust or ill will
leery	adj. ~ (infml ) wary; suspicious
leeward	adj. adv on or to the side sheltered from the wind
leeway	amount of freedom to move, change, etc that is left to sb
left	 pt, pp of leave
left-handed	Using the left hand or arm more dexterously than the right.
leg	one of the limbs of an animal's or person's body used for standing and walking
legacy	money or property left to sb in a will
legal	of or based on the law
legalize	 To give the authority of law to.
legally	* a legally witnessed will
legato	 adj. adv (to be played) in a smooth even manner
legend	story handed down from the past, esp one that may not be true
legendary	of or mentioned in legend
legerdemain	skilful performance of tricks using the hands; juggling; conjuring ;
legibility	 n.
legible	adj. clear enough to be read easily
legibly	adv: Please write more legibly
legion	battle unit of the ancient Roman army
legionary	n, adj of a legion(1)
legislate	v. ~ make laws
legislation	n. action of making laws
legislative	adj. law-making
legislator	 n. member of a legislature
legislature	n. body of people with the power to make and change laws
legitimacy	 n. (fml )
legitimate	in accordance with the law or rules; lawful
legitimated	[ legitimate: ] born in lawful wedlock; enjoying full filial rights
legitimize	 to make legitimate; legalize
legless	without legs
leisure	time free from work or other duties; spare time
leisureliness	[ leisurely: ] unhurried; relaxed
leisurely	adj. adv without hurry
lemon	oval yellow fruit with acidic juice used for drinks and flavouring .
lemonade	 n. sweet fizzy drink
lend	~ sth (to sb) give or allow the use of sth temporarily, on the understanding that it will be returned
length	measurement or extent from end to end
lengthen	 v. become longer
lengthy	very long
lenience	 n. being lenient
leniency	 mercifulness as a consequence of being lenient or tolerant ; a disposition to yield to the wishes of someone
lenient	adj. not severe (esp in punishing people); merciful
lens	piece of glass or other transparent material with one or more curved surfaces used to make things appear clearer, larger or smaller when viewed through it, and used in spectacles, cameras, telescopes, etc
lent	 n. period from Ash Wednesday to Easter Eve, the forty weekdays observed as a time of fasting and penitence
Leo	the fifth sign of the zodiac, the Lion
leonine	adj. of or like a lion
leopard	n. large African and S Asian flesh-eating animal of the cat family with a yellowish coat and dark spots .
leopardess	 n. female leopard
leprosy	n. infectious disease affecting the skin and nerves, causing disfigurement and deformity
lesion	wound; injury
less	 indef det, indef pron. ~ (than...) (used with ns as the comparative of little
lessee	 n. person who holds a building, land, etc on a lease
lessen	become less
lesser	not as great as the other
lesson	thing to be learnt by a pupil
lest	for fear that; in order that...not
let	v. (often with the infinitive omitted when the context is clear ) allow (sb/sth) to
lethal	causing or able to cause death
lethargic	adj. Hot weather makesme lethargic
lethargy	 n. extreme lack of energy or vitality; inactivity; apathy
letter	written or printed sign representing a sound used in speech
letterer	 [ letter: ] any of a set of conventional symbols used in writing or printing a language, each symbol being associated with a group of phonetic values in the language; character of the alphabet
lettering	n. letters or words, esp with reference to their visual appearance
lettuce	garden plant with crisp green leaves
leucocyte	n. white blood cell
levee	n. assembly of visitors, esp at a formal reception
level	having a horizontal surface; flat; not sloping
levelheaded	having sound judgment:SENSIBLE
lever	bar or other device turning on a fixed point which lifts or opens sth with one end when pressure is applied to the other end
leverage	action or power of a lever
leviathan	sea-monster
levitate	 v. rise and float in the air, esp by means of supernatural powers
levity	 n. lack of proper seriousness or respect
levy	~ sth (on sb) collect (a payment, etc) by authority or force; impose sth
lewd	treating sexual matters in a vulgar or indecent way
lexical	adj. of the vocabulary of a language
lexicographer	n. person who compiles dictionaries
lexicography	 n. theory and practice of compiling dictionaries
lexicon	dictionary, esp of an ancient language ,
ley	n. land that is temporarily sown with grass
liability	~state of being liable
liable	~ responsible by law
liaison	communicationand co-operation between units of an organization
liar	 n. person who tells lies, esp habitually
libation	offering of wine, etc to a god in former times ,
libel	false written or printed statement that damages sb's reputation
libellous	adj. being or containing a libel
libelous	 defamatory; injurious to the good name of a person
liberal	tolerant and open-minded; free from prejudice
liberalism	 n. liberal opinions and principles
liberalist	 the quality or state of being liberal
liberality	free giving; generosity ;
liberally	adv. tolerantly;freely
liberate	 v. ~ sb/sth set (sb/sth) free
liberated	showing freedom from traditional ideas in social and sexual matters
liberation	 n.
liberator	n: hailing the soldiers as liberators
libertarian	a believer in freedom of thought, expression, etc.
libertine	n. man who lives an irresponsible and immoral life
liberty	freedom from captivity, slavery, or oppressive control
libidinous	 adj. having or showing strong sexual feelings; lustful ;
libido	 n. (psychology ) emotional energy or urge, esp sexual
librarian	n. person in charge of or assisting in a library
library	collection of books for reading or borrowing
libretto	 n. words that are sung and spoken in an opera or musical play
lice	 pl of louse
licence	official document showing that permission has been given to own, use or do sth
license	v. give a licence to
licentious	 adj. disregardingthe rules of behaviour, esp in sexual matters
licit	sanctioned by custom or morality especially sexual morality ; authorized, sanctioned by, or in accordance with law
lick	pass the tongue over
lid	hinged or removable cover for a box, pot, etc .
lido	 n. public bathing beach or open air swimming-pool
lie	~ (to sb) (about sth) make a statement one knows to be untrue
liege	(in feudal times) sovereign or lord, entitled to loyal service ,
lien	 n. ~ (on/upon sth) right to keep sb's property until a debt owed in connection with it (for repair, transport, etc) is paid ,
lieu	 n. in lieu (of sth) instead
lieutenant	army officer next below a captain .
life	ability to function and grow that distinguishes living animals and plants from dead ones and from rocks, metals, etc
lifeblood	the blood, considered as vital to sustain life
lifeboat	 n. small boat carried on a ship for use if the ship has to be abandoned at sea
lifelike	 adj. exactly like a real person or thing
lifelong	 adj. extending throughout one's life
lifetime	duration of sb's life or sth's existence
lift	~ sb/sth raise sb/sth to a higher level or position
ligament	 n. tough flexible tissue in a person's or an animal's body that connects bones and holds organs in position
ligature	thread, bandage, etc used for tying, esp in surgical operations ,
light	kind of natural radiation that makes things visible
lighten	become lighter in weight
lighter	n. = cigarette lighter (cigarette)
lighthouse	 n. tower or other structure containing a beacon light to warn or guide ships
lightly	in a light manner
lightning	flash of brilliant light in the sky produced by natural electricity passing between clouds or from clouds to the ground, usu followed by thunder
lightweight	weighing between 57 and 61 kg, next above featherweight 5761
ligneous	 adj. woody
likable	adj. easy to like; pleasing
like	 v. find (sb/sth) pleasant or satisfactory; enjoy
likeable	 adj. easy to like; pleasant
likelihood	 n. probability
likely	~ (to do sth/that...) that is expected; probable
like-minded	adj. having similar tastes or opinions
liken	v. ~ sth to sth show the resemblance between one thing and another
likeness	being alike; resemblance
likewise	similarly
lilliputian	adj. on a small scale; tiny
lily	any of various types of plant growing from a bulb, with large white or reddish flowers
limb	leg, arm or wing
limber	 adj. supple; flexible ;
limbo	n. in limbo in an intermediate or uncertain state; neglected
lime	whitesubstance (calcium oxide) obtained by heating limestone,used in making cement and mortar and as a fertilizer
limelight	n. publicity or attention
limerick	 n. type of humorous poem with five lines, the first two rhyming with the last
limestone	n. type of rock, eg chalk, composed esp of the remains of prehistoric plants and animals
limit	point or line beyond which sth does not extend; boundary
limitable	the ultimate extent, degree, or amount of something
limitation	limiting; being limited
limited	adj. restricted; few or small
limitless	adj. without limit
limn	 portray; describe vividly
limnetic	 adj. of, relating to, or inhabiting the open water of lakes down to the depth of light penetration
limousine	n. large luxurious car, esp with a glass partition separating driver and passengers
limp	not stiff or firm
limpid	 adj. clear; transparent
line	long narrow mark, either straight or curved, traced on a surface
lineage	n. line of descent from an ancestor; ancestry
lineal	in the direct line of descent
lineally	 adv: lineally descended from sb
lineament	a facial outline or feature
lineaments	 n. features of the face, etc
linear	of or in lines
linen	cloth made of flax
liner	large passenger or cargo ship travelling on a regular route
linger	stay for a long time; be unwilling to leave
lingerer	 n. person who lingers
lingering	adj. long; protracted
lingo	foreign language
lingua	 The tongue.
lingual	consisting of or related to language ; pertaining to or resembling or lying near the tongue
linguist	person who knows several foreign languages well
linguistic	 adj. of language or linguistics
linguistics	n. scientific study of language or of particular languages
liniment	 n. liquid, esp one made with oil, for rubbing on the body to relieve aches or bruises
lining	layer of material used to cover the inside surface of sth
link	one ring or loop of a chain
linkage	action or manner of linking or being linked
linkup	 the establishing of a connection or union between objects, groups, organizations, etc.
linoleum	 n. type of tough floor-covering made of canvas coated with powdered cork and linseed oil, etc
lint	soft material used for dressing wounds
lion	large powerful flesh-eating animal of the cat family, found in Africa and parts of southern Asia .
lioness	n. female lion
lionize	assign great social importance to
lip	either of the fleshy edges of the opening of the mouth
lipid	any of a large group of organic compounds that are esters of fatty acids (simple lipids, such as fats and waxes) or closely related substances (compound lipids, such as phospholipids)
lipstick	 n. cosmetic for colouring the lips
liquefy	v. (cause sth to) become liquid
liqueur	n. strong alcoholic spirit, drunk in small quantities esp after a meal
liquid	substance that flows freely but is not a gas, eg water or oil
liquidate	pay or settle
liquidation	liquidating or being liquidated
liquidity	state of having assets that can easily be changed into cash
liquor	(Brit) any alcoholic drink
lissom	 adj. quick and graceful in movement; lithe ;
lissome	adj. easily bent; supple; having the ability to move with ease; limber
list	series of names, items, figures, etc written or printed
listen	 v. ~ try to hear sb/sth; pay attention
listener	 n. person who listens
listless	 adj. having no energy, vitality or enthusiasm
listlessness	 n.
litany	series of prayers to God for use in church services, spoken by a priest with set responses by the congregation
liter	= litre
literacy	 n. ability to read and write
literal	corresponding exactly to the original
literally	in a literal manner; exactly
literary	 adj. of or concerned with literature
literate	able to read and write
literati	 n. educated and intelligent people who have learned much from literature and books
literature	writings that are valued as works of art, esp fiction, drama and poetry (as contrasted with technical books and journalism)
lithe	adj. bending or turning easily; supple
lithesome	Nimble.
lithograph	 n. picture, etc printed by lithography
lithosphere	the rigid outer layer of the earth, having an average thickness of about 75 km and comprising the earth's crust and the solid part of the mantle above the asthenospher
litigant	 n. person involved in a lawsuit
litigate	 v. engage in a lawsuit; go to law ;
litigation	 n. process of going to law
litigious	of lawsuits
litmus	 n. blue colouring-matter that is turned red by acid and can be turned blue again by alkali
litotes	It wasn't easy It was very difficult
litre	n. unit of capacity in the metric system, equal to about pints, used for measuring liquids , 1.
litter	light rubbish (eg bits of paper, wrappings, bottles) left lying about, esp in a public place
little	 adj. are rare. It is more common to use smaller, smallest.
littoral	 n, adj (part of a country that is) along the coast
liturgical	 of or relating to or in accord with liturgy
liturgy	n. fixed form of public worship used in churches
livable	fit or suitable to live in or with
live	having life
liveable	 adj. worth living; tolerable
livelihood	 n. means of living; income
lively	full of life and energy; high-spirited; vigorous
liver	large organ in the abdomen that produces bile and purifies the blood .
liverish	suffering from a disorder of the liver
lives	pl of life
livestock	n. animals kept on a farm for use or profit, eg cattle or sheep ,
livid	of the colour of lead; bluish-grey
living	alive, esp now
living-room	n. room in a private house for general use during the daytime
lizard	 n. reptile with a rough skin, four legs and a long tail
load	thing that is being carried or to be carried, esp if heavy
loaf	mass of bread shaped and baked in one piece
loafer	idler
loam	 n. rich soil containing clay, sand and decayed vegetable matter
loamy	adj. loamy land
loan	thing that is lent, esp a sum of money
loath	~ to do sth unwilling; reluctant
loathe	 v. feel great hatred or disgust for (sb/sth)
loathing	 n. disgust
loathsome	adj. causing one to feel disgusted or shocked; repulsive
loaves	 pl of loaf1
lobby	porch, entrance-hall or ante-room
lobbyist	 n. person who lobbies
lobe	lower soft part of the outer ear .
lobster	n. large bluish-black shellfish with eight legs and two long claws that turns scarlet when it is boiled .
local	belonging to a particular place or district
locale	 n. scene of events, operations, etc
locality	 n. position of sth; place or district in which sth happens
locate	discover the exact position or place of
location	place or position
locative	 Indicating place, or the place where or wherein an action occurs.
loch	lake
loci	 pl of locus
lock	portion of hair that hangs or lies together
loco	 n. (infml ) locomotive engine
locomotion	 n. moving, or the ability to move, from place to place
locomotive	 adj. of, having or causing locomotion
locus	n. exact place of sth
locust	 n. type of African and Asian winged insect that migrates in huge swarms which destroy all the vegetation of a district
locution	style of speech; way of using words ;
lode	 n. vein of metal ore
lodestone	n. = loadstone
lodge	small house at the gates of a park or in the grounds of a large house, occupied by a gate-keeper or other employee
lodgement	action or process of lodging (lodge
lodger	 n. person who pays to live in sb's house
lodging	temporary accommodation
lodgment	 The act of furnishing with temporary quarters.
loft	room or space directly under the roof of a house, used for storing things
lofty	(of thoughts, aims, etc) noble; exalted
log	length of tree-trunk that has fallen or been cut down
logger	 another word for: lumberjack
logic	science of reasoning
logical	in accordance with the rules of logic; correctly reasoned
logicality	 n. being logical
logically	adv: argue logically
logician	 n. person who is skilled in logic
logistics	n. organization of supplies and services, etc for any complex operation
logjam	 any stoppage attributable to unusual activity ; an immovable mass of logs blocking a river
loiter	~ stand about idly
loll	~ rest, sit or stand lazily, often while leaning against sth
lone	without companions; solitary
loneliness	 Solitude.
lonely	sad because one lacks friends or companions
loner	n. person who avoids the company of others
long	 adj. having a great or specified extent in space
longevity	n. long life
longing	n. ~ intense desire
longitude	n. distance east or west of the Greenwichmeridian, measured in degrees
longitudinal	of longitude
long-range	 adj. of or for a period of time far in the future
long-standing	adj. that has existed or lasted for a long time
long-term	adj. of or for a long period of time
longueur	 a period of dullness or boredom (especially in a work of literature or performing art)
long-winded	adj. talking or writing at tedious length
look	~ turn one's eyes in a particular direction (in order to see sb/sth)
lookout	the act of keeping watch against danger, etc.
loom	 n. machine for weaving cloth
loon	 (informal)
loop	shape produced by a curve crossing itself
loophole	way of escaping a rule, the terms of a contract, etc, esp one provided by vague or careless wording
loose	freed from control; not tied up
loosely	adv. in a loose manner
loosen	become or make loose or looser
loot	goods taken from an enemy in war, or stolen by thieves ,
lop	cut branches, twigs, etc off (a tree) ,
lope	 v. run fairly fast with long bounding strides
lopsided	 adj. with one side lower, smaller, etc than the other; unevenly balanced
loquacious	 adj. fondof talking; talkative ;
loquaciousness	 [ loquacious: ]
loquacity	[ loquacious: ]
lord	master; male ruler
lordling	 A little lord.
lordly	haughty; insolent in a superior way
lore	 n. knowledge and traditions about a subject or possessed by a particular group of people
lorry	n. (also esp US truck) large strong motor vehicle for transporting goods, soldiers, etc by road
lose	 v. have (sth/sb) taken away from one by accident, misfortune, old age, death, etc
loser	n. person who loses or is defeated, esp habitually
loss	act, instance or process of losing
lost	 pt, pp of lose
lot	n. the `lot, all the `lot, the whole `lot the whole number or amount (of sb/sth)
lottery	way of raising money by selling numbered tickets and giving prizes to the holders of numbers selected at random
lotto	n. game of chance similar to bingo but with the numbers drawn by the players instead of being called
loud	producing much noise; easily heard
loudly	* loudly dressed
loudspeaker	n. part of a radio, record-player, etc that changes electrical impulses into audible sounds
lough	n. lake or long inlet of the sea
lounge	 v. sit or stand in a lazy way, esp leaning against sth; loll
lounger	n. lazy or idle person
louse	small insect living on the bodies of animals and human beings, esp in dirty conditions
lout	 n. clumsy vulgar man or youth with bad manners
loutish	adj. of or like a lout
lovable	adj. easy to love; worthy of love
love	warm liking or affection; affectionatedevotion
lovelorn	 adj. unhappy because one's love is not returned
lovely	beautiful; attractive
lover	partner in a sexual relationship outside marriage
low	not high or tall; not extending far upwards
lowbred	(of persons) lacking in refinement or grace
lower	let or bring (sb/sth) down
lowly	adj. (dated ) of humble rank or condition
low-spirited	 Despondent.
loyal	adj. ~ true and faithful
loyalist	 n. person who is loyal, esp to the established ruler or government during a revolt
loyalty	n. being true and faithful; loyal behaviour
lubber	 n. big clumsy stupid boy or man
lubricant	n. substancethat lubricates
lubricate	v. put oil or grease on or in so that it moves easily
lubrication	n. lubricating or being lubricated
lubricious	 adj. showing an unpleasant enjoyment of sexual matters; lewd ;
lucid	clearly expressed; easy to understand
lucidity	 n.
luck	chance, esp thought of as a force that brings good or bad fortune
luckless	 adj. unlucky
lucky	having, bringing or resulting from good luck
lucrative	adj. producing much money; profitable
lucre	profit or money-making, as a motive for doing sth
lucubrate	write in scholarly fashion
lucubration	a solemn literary work that is the product of laborious cogitation ; laborious cogitation
ludicrous	adj. causing laughter; ridiculous; absurd
lug	v. drag or carry (sth) with great effort
luggage	n. bags, suitcases, etc containing sb's belongings and taken on a journey
lugubrious	 adj. dismal; mournful
lugubriousness	 n.
lukewarm	only slightly warm; tepid
lull	~ sb/sth (to sth) make (a person or an animal) quiet or less active; soothe sb/sth
lullaby	n. soft gentle song sung to make a child go to sleep
lumber	unwanted pieces of furniture, etc that are stored away or take up space
lumberjack	 n. man whose job is felling trees or cutting or transporting timber
lumen	a unit of luminous flux equal to the light emitted in a unit solid angle by a uniform point source of one candle intensity
luminary	person who inspires or influences others
luminescence	 Showing increase.
luminosity	 n. quality of being luminous
luminous	giving out light; bright
lump	hard or compact mass, usu without a regular shape
lumpish	adj. heavy; clumsy; stupid
lunacy	unsoundness of mind; insanity; madness ;
lunar	adj. of the moon
lunatic	insane person
lunch	meal taken in the middle of the day
luncheon	 n. lunch
lune	 The moon.
lung	 n. either of the two breathing-organs in the chest of man and other animals
lupin	n. garden plant with tall spikes of flowers, bearing seeds in pods
lurch	n. leave sb in the lurch
lure	thing that attracts or invites
lurid	having bright glaring colours or combinations of colour
lurk	be or stay hidden, esp when waiting to attack
luscious	rich and sweet in taste or smell
lush	growing thickly and strongly; luxuriant
lust	~ (for sb) strong sexual desire
luster	 shine; gloss
lustily	adv: sing lustily
lustre	soft brightness of a smooth or shining surface; sheen
lustrous	 adj. having lustre
lusty	adj. healthy, vigorous and full ofvitality
luxuriance	 n. luxuriant growth
luxuriant	adj. growing thickly and strongly; lush
luxuriate	v. ~ in sth take great pleasure in sth; enjoy sth as a luxury
luxurious	supplied with luxuries; very comfortable
luxury	the best and most expensive food and drink, clothes, surroundings, etc
lying	pres p of lie1, lie
lynch	v. put to death or punish violently without a lawful trial
lyre	 n. ancient musical instrument with strings fixed in a U-shaped frame, played by plucking with the fingers , U
lyric	expressing direct personal feelings
lyrical	= lyric
lyrics	 Expressing deep personal emotion or observations
macabre	adj. connected with death, and thus causing fear; gruesome
macadam	n. road surface made of layers of compressed broken stones
macadamize	 To cover or pave, as a path or roadway, with small broken stone.
macaroni	 n. long hard tubes of pasta, often chopped into short pieces and boiled in water before eating
mace	large heavy club formerly used as a weapon, usu having a head with metal spikes ,
macerate	 v. (cause sth to) become soft or break up by soaking
Machiavellian	adj. cunning and deceitful in gaining what one wants; showing such cunning or deceit
machination	n. evil plot or scheme
machinations	 [ machination: ] an intrigue, plot, or scheme
machine	apparatus with several moving parts, designed to perform a particular task, and driven by electricity, steam, gas, etc, or by human power
machinery	moving parts (of a machine)
machinist	person who operates a machine, esp a sewing-machine
mackintosh	 n. coat made of rainproof material
macrocosm	the macrocosm the universe
maculate	 marked with spotsblotched ;impure, besmirched
maculated	make dirty or spotty; also used metaphorically ; spot, stain, or pollute
mad	mentally ill; insane
madam	(fml ) (polite form of address to a woman, whether married or unmarried, usu sb one does not know personally , )
madame	Mmes) (French title given to an older, esp married or widowed, woman or to an older woman who is not British or American
madden	 v. make mad(4); irritate; annoy
maddening	adj. annoying; irritating
made	 pt, pp of make1
Madonna	the Madonna the Virgin Mary, mother of Jesus Christ
madrigal	 n. songfor several voices, usu without instrumental accompaniment,on the themes of love and/or nature 16,
maelstrom	great whirlpool
maestro	n. (with a capital letter when followed by a name ) (title given to a) master in the arts, esp a great musical composer, conductor or teacher
magazine	 n. paper-covered periodical, usu weekly or monthly, with articles, stories, etc, by various writers
magenta	adj. n bright purplish red
maggot	 n. larva or grub (esp of the bluebottle or cheese-fly), which lays its eggs in meat, cheese, etc
maggoty	adj. full of maggots
magic	power of apparentlyusing supernatural forces to change the form of things or influence events; superstitious practices based on this
magical	of, used in or like magic
magician	 n. person who is skilled in magic(
magisterial	having or showing authority
magisterially	adv: dismiss the servants magisterially
magistracy	position of a magistrate
magistrate	 n. official who acts as a judge in the lowest courts; Justice of the Peace
magnanimity	n. being magnanimous
magnanimous	adj. having or showing great generosity
magnate	n. wealthy and powerful landowner or industrialist
magnet	piece of iron, often ina horseshoe shape, which can attract iron, either naturallyor because of an electric current passed through it, and which points roughly north and south when freely suspended
magnetic	with the properties of a magnet
magnetism	properties and effects of magnetic substances
magnetize	To make a magnet of, permanently, or temporarily.
magnification	magnifying
magnificence	 The exhibition of greatness of action, character, intellect, wealth, or power.
magnificent	adj. splendid; remarkable; impressive
magnified	[ magnify: ] to increase, cause to increase, or be increased in apparent size, as through the action of a lens, microscope, etc.
magnify	make (sth) appear larger, as a lens or microscope does
magniloquent	,
magnitude	(usu large) size
magpie	noisy black-and-white bird that is attracted by, and often takes away, small bright objects .
maharaja	 n. Indian prince
maid	woman servant
maiden	girl or unmarried woman
maidenhood	 n. state of being a maiden; virginity ;
maidservant	n. maid(1)
mail	official system of collecting, transporting and delivering letters and parcels
mailbox	= letter-box (letter)
maim	 v. wound or injure so that part of the body cannot be used
main	most important; chief; principal
mainland	 n. large mass of land forming a country, continent, etc without its islands
mainly	 adv. chiefly; primarily
mainsheet	the line used to control the angle of the mainsail to the win
mainstay	rope from the top of the mainmast to the base of the foremast
maintain	~ sth cause sth to continue; keep sth in existence at the same level, standard, etc
maintenance	maintaining or being maintained
maisonette	self-contained dwelling on two floors, part of a larger building or block
maize	n. tall cereal plant bearing yellow grain on large ears
majestic	 adj. having or showing majesty; stately; grand
majestically	 adv: She strode majestically through the palace
majesty	impressive dignity and stateliness; grandeur, as of a king or queen
major	important; great(er)
majority	the greater number or part; most
make	 v. (pt, pp made / meId; med/)
make compromise with 
	make compromise with 
maker	the/our Maker the Creator; God ;
makeshift	n, adj used temporarily until sth better is available
makeup	 The arrangements or combination of the parts of which anything is composed.
maladjusted	adj. unable for psychological reasons to behave acceptably or deal satisfactorily with other people
maladroit	adj. not clever or skilful; clumsy; bungling
malady	 n. disease; illness
malaise	n. general feeling of illness, without clear signs of a particular disease
malapropism	ncomical confusion of a word with another, similar-sounding,word which has a quite different meaning, eg `an ingenuousmachine for peeling potatoes'
malapropos	 of an inappropriate or misapplied nature or kind
malaria	n. fever produced when germs are introduced into the blood by a bite from certain mosquitoes
malarial	 adj. of malaria
malcontent	 n, adj discontented and rebellious
malcontented	 discontent; unhappy
male	of the sex that does not give birth to offspring
malediction	n. prayer that sb or sth may be destroyed, hurt, etc; curse ;
malefactor	 n. wrongdoer; criminal
maleficent	 adj. causing or doing evil
malevolence	n. desire to do evil or cause harm to others; ill-will ;
malevolent	 adj. ~ wishing to do evil or cause harm to others; spiteful
malfeasance	a wrongful act that the actor had no right to do; improper professional conduct
malformation	state of being badly formed or shaped
malfunction	v. (of a machine) fail to work normally or properly
malice	~ desire to harm others
malicious	adj. intended to harm others
malign	 v. say unpleasant or untrue things about
malignant	feeling or showing great desire to harm others; malevolent
malignity	wishing evil to others ; quality of being disposed to evil; intense ill will
malinger	 v. (usu in the continuous tenses ) pretend to be ill in order to avoid work or duty
malingerer	 n. person who malingers
mall	 n. street or covered area with rows of shops, closed to traffic
malleable	that can be beaten or pressed into different shapes easily
mallet	hammer with a wooden head, eg for striking the handle of a chisel .
malnutrition	 n. condition resulting from a lack of food
malodor	an offensive odor
malodorous	 adj. smelling unpleasant
malpractice	n. careless, illegal or unethical behaviour by sb in a professional or official position
maltreat	 v. treat (a person or an animal) with violence or cruelty; mistreat ;
maltreatment	 n. maltreating or being maltreated
mamba	n. black or green poisonous African snake
mammal	 n. any of the class of animals that give birth to live offspring and feed their young on milk from the breast
mammoth	n. large hairy type of elephant, now extinct
man	adult male human being
manacle	n. one of a pair of chains or metal bands for binding the hands or feet; fetter ;
manage	be in charge of (sth); run
manageable	 adj. that can be managed; easily controlled
management	control and organization
manager	person controlling a business, etc
managerial	 adj. of managers or management
mandate	~ (to do sth) authority given to a party, trade union, etc by the people who support it
mandatory	adj. required by law; compulsory
mane	long hair on the neck of a horse, lion, etc
man-eater	n. lion, tiger, etc that attacks men
maneuver	 = manoeuvre
maneuverable	 [ maneuver: ] a contrived, complicated, and possibly deceptive plan or action
maneuvering	[ maneuver: ] a contrived, complicated, and possibly deceptive plan or action
mange	n. skin disease of hairy animals, caused by a parasite
mangle	damage greatly, (almost) beyond recognition; mutilate
mangy	suffering from mange
mania	mental disorder marked by extreme excitement or violence
maniac	mad person
maniacal	violently mad
manifest	 adj. ~ (fml ) clear and obvious
manifestation	outward demonstration; indication
manifesto	n. (publication containing a) public declaration by a political party, ruler, etc of principles and policy
manifold	 adj. of many types; many and various
manikin	n. abnormally small man; dwarf ;
manipulate	control or handle with skill
manipulated	[ manipulate: ] vt. to handle or use, esp. with some skill, in a process or action
manipulation	 n. manipulating or being manipulated
manipulative	 adj. tending to manipulate(2)
manipulator	n. person who manipulates(2)
mankind	 the human race
manly	(approv ) (of a man) having the qualities or appearance expected of a man
mannequin	woman employed to display new styles of clothes by wearing them; fashion model
manner	way in which a thing is done or happens
mannered	 adj. having an unnatural style of speaking, writing, etc; affected
mannerism	peculiar habit of behaviour, speech, etc
manoeuvre	planned and controlled movement of armed forces
manor	unit of land under the feudal system, part of which was used by the lord of the manor (lord), the rest being farmed by tenants ,
manorial	 adj. of a manor (1
mansion	large and stately house
mantel	 n. = mantelpiece
mantle	loose sleeveless cloak
manual	 adj. of, done with or controlled by the hands
manufacture	make on a large scale using machinery
manufacturer	 n. person or firm that manufactures things
manumission	Emancipation.
manumit	v. (fml ) (formerly) free (a slave)
manure	 n. animal dung or other material, natural or artificial, spread over or mixed with soil to make it fertile
manuscript	thing written by hand, not typed or printed
many	a large number of people or things . (det)
map	representation on paper, etc of the earth's surface or part of it, showing countries, rivers, mountains, oceans, roads, etc
maple	n. (also `maple tree) one of various types of tree of the northern hemisphere, grown for timber and ornament
mar	damage (sth); spoil
maraud	 a sudden short attack ; search for plunder
marble	type of hard limestone used, when cut and polished, for building and sculpture
march	the third month of the year, next after February
mare	female horse or donkey
margarine	n. food like butter, made from animal or vegetable fats
margin	blank space round the written or printed matter on a page
marginal	of or in a margin
marginally	 adv. slightly
marine	of, near, found in or produced by the sea
mariner	n. sailor
marionette	 n. jointed puppetmoved by strings .
marital	adj. of ahusband or wife; of marriage
maritime	of the sea, sailing or shipping
mark	stain, spot, line, etc, esp one that spoils the appearance of sth
marked	 adj. clear; noticeable; easily seen
markedly	 adv. in a marked manner; noticeably
market	gathering of people for buying and selling goods; place where they meet
marketing	n. theory and practice of commercialselling
marketplace	a place where a public market is held
marmoreal	adj. of or like marble
maroon	 adj. n brownish red
marquetry	n. pattern of piecesof wood, ivory, etc set into the surface of furniture as decoration
marquis	nobleman next in rank above an earl and below a duke earlduke
marred	 [ mar: ] vt. to cause harm to; spoil or impair
marriage	legal union between a man and a woman as husband and wife; state of being married
marriageable	 adj. old enough to marry; suitable for marriage
married	~ (to sb) having a husband or wife; united in marriage
marrow	soft fatty substance that fills the hollow parts of human and animal bones
marry	take (sb) as a husband or wife
Mars	 n. the planet fourth in order from the sun, next to the Earth
marsh	n. low-lying wet land
marshal	officer of high rank
marshy	 adj. of, like or containing a marsh
marsupial	n, adj of the class of mammals which includes the kangaroo, the female of which has a pouch on its body to hold its young
martial	adj. of or associated with war
martian	n, adj of the planet Mars
martinet	 n. person who imposes strict discipline and demands obedience to orders
martyr	person who is killed or made to suffer greatly because of his beliefs
martyrdom	n. martyr'ssuffering or death
marvel	wonderful or miraculousthing; thing causing astonishment
marvellous	very good; excellent
marvelous	[ marvellous: ] causing great wonder, surprise, etc.; extraordinary
Marxism	n. political and economic theory of Karl Marx (1818-83), stating that class struggle is the force behind historical change and that capitalism will inevitably be replaced by socialism and a classless society
Marxist	n. supporter of Marxism. adj. characterized by, supporting or relating to Marxism
mascot	 n. person, animal or thing thought to bring good luck
masculine	having the qualities or appearance thought to be typical of men
masculinity	n. quality of being masculine
mash	grain, bran, etc cooked in water until soft, used as food for animals
mask	covering for the face, or part of it, worn as a disguise
masochism	n. gettingpleasure from one's own pain or humiliation
masochist	n.
mason	person who builds in or works with stone
masonry	that part of a building that is made of stone and mortar; stonework
masquerade	false show; pretence
mass	celebration of Christ's Last Supper, esp in the Roman Catholic Church
massacre	cruel killing of a large number
massive	large, heavy and solid
massiveness	n.
mast	upright post of wood or metal used to support a ship's sails
master	gain control of overcome (sth)
mastermind	 n. person who is unusually intelligent, esp one who plans the work of others
masterpiece	n. task done with great skill, esp an artist's greatest work
mastery	(~ complete) knowledge; great skill
masticate	v. chew (food)
mastodon	 n. large animal like an elephant, now extinct ,
mat	piece of material, made of straw, rushes, fibre, etc, used to cover part of a floor
matador	n. bullfighter whose task is to fight and kill the bull
match	n. short piece of wood or pasteboard with a head made of material that bursts into flame when rubbed against a rough or specially prepared surface
mate	(infml ) (male) friend, companion or fellow-worker
material	substance or things from which sth else is or can be made; thing with which sth is done
materialism	n. 1obsession with material possessions,bodily comforts, etc while neglecting spiritual values
materialist	person excessively interested in material things
materialistic	adj. of materialism
materialize	To take perceptible or substantial form.
materially	 adv. in a significant way; essentially
maternal	of or like a mother
matey	adj. ~ (infml ) sociable; familiar; friendly
math	 (informal) short for: mathematics
mathematical	 adj. of mathematics
mathematically	 adv: She's not mathematically inclined, ie not interested in mathematics
mathematics	n. science of numbers, quantity and space, of which eg arithmetic, algebra, trigonometry and geometry are branches
maths	(informal) short for: mathematics
matinee	n. afternoon performance at a cinema or theatre
matriarch	n. female head of a family or tribe
matriarchal	adj. a matriarchal society, tribe, etc
matriarchy	 n. type of society in which women are the heads of families, own property and have most of the authority
matrices	 pl of matrix
matricide	killing one's own mother
matriculate	v. be admitted or admit as a student to a university
matriculation	n. matriculating or being matriculated
matrimony	n. state of being married; marriage
matrix	 n. mould into which molten metal, liquid, etc is poured to form shapes for eg printer's type, gramophone records, etc
matron	woman who manages the domestic affairs of a school, etc
matter	affair, topic or situation being considered
mattress	 n. fabric case filled with soft or springy material and used for sleeping on .
maturation	 n. process of becoming or being made mature
maturational	 [ maturation: ] the process of maturing or ripening
mature	fully grown or developed mentally or physically; having achieved one's full potential
maturity	 n. state of being mature
maudlin	adj. foolishly or tearfully sentimental or self-pitying, esp when drunk ,
maul	~ sb/sth (about) handle sb/sth roughly or brutally
maunder	~ talk in a rambling way
mausoleum	n. large, finely built tomb
mauve	adj. n pale purple colour
maven	one who is experienced or knowledgeable:EXPERT
maverick	unbranded calf
mawkish	adj. sentimental in a feeble or sickly way
maxim	n. saying that expresses a general truth or rule of conduct, eg `Waste not, want not' ,
maximal	adj. as great as can be achieved
maximise	 [ maximize: ] vt. to make as high or great as possible; increase to a maximum
maximize	 vt. to make as high or great as possible; increase to a maximum
maximum	max) greatest amount, size, intensity, etc possible or recorded
may	n. the fifth month of the year, next after April
maybe	perhaps; possibly
mayhem	violent disorder or confusion; havoc
mayor	n. head of the council of a city or borough, usu elected yearly
mayoral	adj. of a mayor or mayoress
maze	network of paths or hedges designed as a puzzle in which one must find one's way
me	person who is the speaker or writer
mead	 n. alcoholic drink made from fermented honey and water
meadow	 n. grassland, esp used for growing hay; (area of) low, often boggy, land near a river
meager	 deficient in quality or quantity
meagre	small in quantity and poor in quality
meal	occasion when food is eaten
mealymouthed	 hesitant to state facts or opinions simply and directly as from e.g. timidity or hypocrisy
mean	~ sth (to sb) (intend to) convey sth; signify sth
meander	follow a winding course, flowing slowly
meaning	what is conveyed or signified; sense
means	action by which a result is brought about; method
meant	pt, pp of mean1
meantime	 adv. meanwhile
meanwhile	adv. in the time between two events; at the same time
measles	n. infectious disease, esp of children, with a fever and small red spots that cover the whole body
measly	 adj. ridiculously small in size, amount or value
measurable	that can be measured
measure	~ (sth) (up) find the size, length, volume, etc of (sth) by comparing it with a standard unit
measured	carefully considered
measurement	measuring
measuring	[ measure: ] the extent, quantity, amount, or degree of something, as determined by measurement or calculation
meat	flesh of animals, esp mammals rather than fish or birds, used as food
mecca	city in Saudi Arabia, birthplaceof Muhammad and the spiritual centre of Islam ,
mechanic	 n. worker skilled in using or repairing machines or tools
mechanical	of, connectedwith, produced by or operated by a machine or machines
mechanically	 adv. in a mechanical way
mechanics	science of motion and force; science of machinery
mechanism	working parts of a machine, etc
mechanization	[ mechanize: ] to equip (a factory, industry, etc.) with machinery
mechanize	to equip (a factory, industry, etc.) with machinery
medal	n. flat piece of metal, usu shaped like a coin and stamped with words and a design, which commemorates an event etc, or is awarded to sb for bravery, sporting achievement, etc
medallion	n. large medal
meddle	 v. ~ (in sth) interfere (in sth that is not one's concern)
meddler	n. person who meddles
meddlesome	 adj. fond of or in the habit of meddling
media	n. the media means of mass communication, eg TV, radio, newspapers
mediaeval	= medieval
medial	situated in the middle
median	 adj. situated in or passing through the middle
mediate	~ act as a peacemaker or go-between for two or more people, groups, etc who disagree
mediation	n.
mediator	 n. person, organization, etc that mediates
medical	of the art of medicine; of curing disease
medically	adv: medically sound
medicate	 to cover or impregnate (a wound, etc.) with an ointment, cream, etc.
medicine	prevention and cure of disease, esp by drugs, diet, etc, but sometimes including surgery also
medieval	 adj. of the Middle Ages, about AD 1100-1400 , 1100-1400
mediocre	 adj. not very good; second-rate
mediocrity	quality of being mediocre
meditate	~ think deeply, esp about spiritual matters
meditation	deep thought, esp about spiritual matters
meditative	 adj. of meditation; engrossed in thought
Mediterranean	adj. of or similar to the Mediterranean Sea or the countries, etc bordering it
medium	 n. (pl usu media) means by which sth is expressed or communicated
medley	piece of music made up of passages from other musical works
meek	 adj. humble and obedient; submissive
meet	come face to face with (sb); come together
meeting	coming together of people, esp for discussion
megalith	 n. large stone, esp one erected as a monument in ancient times
megalithic	made of megaliths
megalomania	n. form of madness in which a person has an exaggerated view of his own importance, power, etc
megalomaniac	 n. person suffering from megalomania
megawatt	 one million watts.
melancholic	adj. melancholy
melancholy	 n. deep sadness which lasts for some time; depression ;
melange	n. mixture; medley ;
meld	 a form of rummy using two decks and four jokers; jokers and deuces are wild; the object is to meld groups of seven of the same rank
melee	n. confusedstruggle; confused crowd of people
meliorate	To make better or improve, as in quality or social or physical condition.
meliorism	The belief that society has an innate tendency toward improvement and that this tendency may be furthered through conscious human effort.
mellifluous	adj. sweet-sounding; (almost) musical
melodious	adj. of or producingpleasant music; tuneful
melodrama	drama full of sensational events and exaggerated characters, often with a happy ending
melodramatic	 adj. of, like or suitable for melodrama
melody	arrangement of words put to music; song or tune
melon	n. large juicy round fruit of various types of plant that trail along the ground
melt	become liquid through heating
melted	 [ melt: ] to liquefy (a solid) or (of a solid) to become liquefied, as a result of the action of heat
member	person belonging to a group, society, etc
membership	state of being a member of a group, society, etc
membrane	 n. thin pliable skin-like tissue connecting, covering or lining parts of an animal or a vegetable body
memento	n. thing given, bought, etc and kept as a reminder (of a person, a place or an event)
memoir	written record of events, usu based on personal knowledge
memorable	adj. deserving to be remembered; easily remembered
memorandum	note made for future use, esp to help oneself remember sth
memorial	 n. ~ monument, plaque, ceremony, etc that reminds people of an event or a person
memorialize	commemorate
memorize	 to commit to memory; learn so as to remember
memory	power of the mind by which facts can be remembered
men	pl of man1
menace	threatening quality, tone, feeling, etc
menagerie	n. collection of wild animals in captivity, esp in a travelling circus or for exhibition
mend	return (sth broken, worn out or torn) to good condition or working order; repair
mendacious	 adj. untruthful; lying
mendacity	untruthfulness
mendicant	n, adj (person) getting a living by begging
menial	 adj. (of work) suitable to be done by servants; unskilled
mental	of, in or to the mind
mentality	characteristic attitude of mind; way of thinking
mentally	 adv. in the mind; with regard to the mind
menthol	n. solid white substanceobtained from oil of peppermint, used to relieve pain and as a flavouring, eg in cigarettes or toothpaste
mention	~ sth/sb (as sth); ~ sth/sb (to sb) write or speak about sth/sb briefly; say the name of sth/sb; refer to sth/sb
mentor	 n. experienced and trusted adviser of an inexperienced person
menu	list of dishes available at a restaurant or to be served at a meal
mercantile	 adj. of trade and commerce; of merchants ;
mercenary	adj. interested only in making money, etc; done from this motive
merchandise	n. goods bought and sold; goods for sale
merchant	wholesale trader, esp one who trades with foreign countries
merciful	 => mercy
merciless	adj. ~ showing no mercy; pitiless
mercurial	(of people or their moods, etc) often changing
mercury	n. the planet nearest to the sun
mercy	kindness, forgiveness, restraint, etc shown to sb one has the right or power to punish
mere	nothing more than; no better or more important than
merely	 adv. only; simply
meretricious	 adj. apparently attractive but in fact valueless
merge	~ ~ (together); ~ A with B/~ A and B (together) (esp commerce ) (cause two things to) come together and combine
merger	 n. joining together (esp two commercial companies)
meringue	 n. mixture of whites of egg and sugar baked until crisp and used as a covering over sweet pies, tarts, etc ,
merit	quality of deserving praise or reward; worth; excellence
merited	deserved, be worthy of or entitled or liable to
meritorious	adj. deserving praise or reward
mermaid	n. mythical creature having the body of a woman, but a fish's tail instead of legs
merry	(dated ) happy and cheerful; full of joy and gaiety
mesa	 n. flat-topped hill with steep sides, common in south-western USA
mesdames	 pl of madame
mesh	(piece of) material made of a network of wire, thread, etc
mesmeric	 adj. hypnotic
mesmerism	n. hypnotism
mesmerist	n. hypnotist
mesmerize	hypnotize
mesquite	 any small mimosaceous tree of the genus Prosopis, esp. the tropical American P. juliflora, whose sugary pods (mesquite beans) are used as animal fodder
mess	dirty or untidy state
message	information, news, request, etc sent to sb in writing, speech, by radio, etc
messenger	n. person carrying a message
messieurs	pl of Monsieur
messy	in a state of disorder; dirty
met	adj. meteorological
metabolic	adj. of metabolism
metabolism	 n. chemical process by which food is built up into living matter in an organism or by which living matter is broken down into simpler substances
metal	any of a class of mineral substances such as tin, iron, gold, copper, etc, which are usu opaque and good conductors of heat and electricity, or any alloy of these
metallic	 adj. of or like metal
metallurgical	[ metallurgy: ] the scientific study of the extraction, refining, alloying, and fabrication of metals and of their structure and properties
metallurgy	 The art or science of extracting a metal from ores, as by smelting.
metamorphose	 v. ~ (into sth) (fml ) (cause sb/sth to) change in form or nature
metamorphosis	n. (fml) change of form or nature, eg by natural growth or development
metaphor	 n. use of a word or phrase to indicate sth different from (though related in some way to) the literal meaning, as in `I'll make him eat his words' or `She has a heart of stone' I'll make him eat his wordsShe has a heart of stone
metaphorical	 adj. of or like a metaphor; containing metaphors
metaphysic	 the system of first principles and assumptions underlying an enquiry or philosophical theory
metaphysical	of metaphysics
metaphysician	One skilled in metaphysics.
metaphysics	branch of philosophy dealing with the nature of existence, truth and knowledge
metazoan	 any multicellular animal of the group Metazoa: includes all animals except sponges
mete	 v. mete sth out (to sb) (fml ) give or administer (punishment, rewards, etc)
metempsychosis	 Transition of the soul of a human being at death into another body, whether human or beast.
meteor	 n. small mass of matter that enters the earth's atmosphere from outer space, making a bright streak across the night sky as it is burnt up
meteoric	of meteors
meteorite	n. piece of rock or metal that has reached the earth's surface from outer space
meteorological	 adj. of meteorology
meteorologist	n. expert in meteorology
meteorology	n. scientific study of the earth's atmosphere and its changes, used esp for forecasting weather
meter	n. device that measures the volume of gas, water, etc passing through it, time passing, electrical current, distance, etc
methanol	 a colourless volatile poisonous liquid compound used as a solvent and fuel. Formula: CH3OH
method	way
methodical	 adj. done in an orderly, logical way
methodicalness	 [ methodical: ] less commonly methodic
methodism	n. Protestantreligious denomination that originated in the teachings of John Wesley , 1703-179 , 1703-1791
methodology	set of methods used
meticulous	 adj. ~ giving or showing great precision and care; very attentive to detail
meticulousness	 n.
metonymy	 A figure of speech that consists in the naming of a thing by one of its attributes.
metre	n. unit of length in the metric system, equal to 39.37 inches , 39.37.
metric	of or based on themetre1
metrical	 adj. of or composed in verse, not prose
metronome	n. device, usu with an inverted pendulum that can move back and forward at various speeds, which is used by a musician to mark time
metropolis	 n. chief city of a region or country; capital
metropolitan	 adj. of or in a large or capital city
mettle	quality of endurance or courage, esp in people or horses
mettlesome	 adj. (usu of horses, etc) high-spirited; courageous ,
mew	n. cry characteristic of a cat or a seabird
miasma	unhealthy or unpleasant mist, etc
mice	 pl of mouse
microbe	n. tiny organism that can only be seen under a microscope, esp one that causes disease or fermentation
microcomputer	n. small domestic or business computer in which the central processor is a microprocessor
microcosm	thing or being regarded as representing the universe, or mankind, on a small scale; miniature representation
micrometer	 n. device for measuring very small objects, angles or distances
micron	 n. one millionth of a metre; micrometre
microorganism	any organism, such as a bacterium, protozoan, or virus, of microscopic siz
microphone	 n. instrument that changes sound waves into electrical current
microprocessor	 n. central data processing unit of a computer, contained on one or more microchips
microscope	 n. instrumentwith lenses for making very small objects appear larger
microscopic	too small to be seen without the help of a microscope
microscopy	 The art of examing objects with the microscope.
microwave	very short electromagnetic wave used esp in radio and radar, and also in cooking
midday	 n. middle of the day; noon
middle	the middle point, position or part which is at an equal distance from two or more points, etc; point between the beginning and the end
midget	 n. extremely small person
midnight	1
midst	n. middle part
midsummer	the middle of summer, around
midwife	n. person, esp a woman, trained to assist women in childbirth
mien	 n. person's appearance or bearing, esp as an indication of mood, etc
miff	 a trivial quarrel
might	(indicating permission )
mighty	(esp fml ) powerful; strong
migrant	n, adj person or animal who migrates
migrate	move from one place to go to live or work in another
migration	n. (also transmigration) (action of) migrating
migratory	adj. having or of the habit of migrating
mild	(of a person or his manner) gentle; soft
mildew	 n. tiny fungus forming a coating on plants, leather, food, etc in warm and damp conditions
mildly	in a gentle manner
mildness	 n.
mile	unit of distance equal to 1.6 km 1.6
mileage	distance travelled, measured in miles
milestone	stone put at the side of a road showing distances in miles
milieu	 n. (usu sing ) social surroundings; environment
militant	 adj. using force or strong pressure, or supporting their use, to achieve one's aims
militarism	 n. believing in or depending on military strength and methods, esp as a government policy
militarist	 n. person who supports militarism
military	 adj. of or for soldiers or an army; of or for armed forces
militate	 v. ~ against sth (of evidence, facts, etc) have great force or influence to prevent sth
militia	n. force of civilians who are trained as soldiers and reinforce the regular army in the internal defence of the country in an emergency
milk	white liquid produced by female mammals as food for their young, esp that of cows, goats, etc drunk by human beings and made into butter and cheese
milkman	n. man who goes from house to house delivering and selling milk
milky	of or like milk
mill	machinery or apparatus for grinding grain into flour
millennium	period of 1000 years
miller	 n. person who owns or runs a mill for grinding corn, esp a windmill or a water-mill ,
millet	 n. type of cereal plant growing 3 to 4 feet high and producing a large crop of small seeds
millimeter	 [ millimetre: ] one thousandth of a metre.
millimetre	 one thousandth of a metre.
millinery	n. (trimmings for) women's hats
million	pron, det 1000000; one thousand thousand .
millionaire	n. person who has a million pounds, dollars, etc; very rich person ;
millionth	millionmillionthhundredhundredth
milometer	n. instrument in a vehicle or on a bicycle for measuring the number of miles travelled
mime	 n. (in the theatre, etc) use of only facial expressions and gestures to tell a story
mimetic	adj. of imitating or mimicking
mimic	copy the appearance or manner of (sb/sth) in a mocking or amusing way
mimicry	n. mimicking
minaret	n. tall slender spire forming part of a mosque, with a balcony from which people are called to prayer by a muezzin
minatory	 adj. threatening
mince	chop or cut into very small pieces in a machine with revolving blades
mincing	adj. affected
mind	ability to be aware of things and to think and feel
mindful	~ of sb/sth (fml ) giving thought and care or attention to sb/sth
mindless	not requiring intelligence
mine	 possess pron of or belonging to me
miner	n. person who works in a mine underground
mineral	substance that is not vegetable or animal, esp one with a constant chemical composition which is found naturally in the earth
mingle	~ with sth/~ (together) form a mixture with sth; combine
mingy	adj. (Brit infml ) mean; ungenerous; stingy
Mini	Mini (propr ) type of small car
miniature	very small detailed painting, usu of a person
miniaturist	n. painter of miniatures
minimal	adj. smallest in amount or degree
minimalist	 a person advocating a minimal policy, style, technique, action, etc.
minimise	 [ minimize: ] to reduce to or estimate at the least possible degree or amount
minimize	 To reduce to the smallest possible amount or degree.
minimum	least or smallest amount, degree, etc possible
minion	 n. (derog or joc ) subordinate or assistant, esp one who tries to win favour by obeying a superior slavishly
minister	person at the head of a government department or a main branch of one (and often a member of the Cabinet)
ministration	 n. helping or serving, eg at a religious ceremony
ministry	(buildings containing a) government department
minnow	 n. any of several types of very small freshwater fish of the carp family
minor	smaller, less serious, less important, etc
minority	(usu sing ) smaller number or part (esp of people voting or of votes cast)
minstrel	travelling composer, player and singer of songs and ballads
mint	any of various types of aromatic herb whose leaves are used for flavouring food, drinks, toothpaste, chewing-gum, etc
minuet	 n. slow graceful dance in triple time
minus	with the deduction of; less
minuscule	adj. very small; tiny ;
minute	one sixtieth part of an hour, equal to 60 seconds , 60
minutely	 adv.
minutes	an official record of the proceedings of a meeting, conference, convention, etc
minutia	a minute or minor detail
minutiae	 n. very small or unimportant details
miracle	good or welcome act or event which does not follow the known laws of nature and is therefore thought to be caused by some supernatural power
miraculous	like a miracle; contrary to the laws of nature
mirage	optical illusion caused by hot air conditions, esp that of a sheet of water seeming to appear in the desert or on a hot road
mire	swampy ground or bog; soft deep mud
mired	[ mire: ] a boggy or marshy area
mirror	polished surface, usu of coated glass or of metal, that reflects images
mirth	n. merriment orhappiness; laughter
mirthful	 adj. mirthless adj
miry	 adj. swampy or boggy; muddy ;
misadventure	(piece of) bad luck; misfortune
misanthrope	a person who hates or distrusts mankind
misanthropic	 adj. hating or distrusting mankind or human society
misanthropy	n. hatred or distrust of mankind
misapprehend	 v. understand (words or a person) wrongly
misapprehension	n. under a misappre`hension not understanding correctly
misbehave	v. ~ behave badly or improperly
miscalculate	 v. calculate wrongly
miscalculation	 n.
miscarry	(of a pregnant woman) have a miscarriage
miscegenation	n. mixture of races; production of offspring by two people of different races ;
miscellaneous	of various kinds
miscellany	varied collection of items
mischance	n. (piece of) bad luck
mischief	behaviour that is annoying or does slight damage, but is not malicious (used esp as in the expressions shown)
mischievous	filled with, fond of or engaged in mischief
miscible	 adj. ~ (fml ) (of liquids) that can be mixed
misconduct	(esp law ) improper behaviour, esp of a sexual or professional kind
misconstrue	v. get a wrong idea of or misinterpret (sb's words, acts, etc)
miscount	 v. count wrongly
miscreant	n. villain; wrongdoer ;
misdeed	n. (fml ) wicked act; crime
misdemeanor	a crime less serious than a felony
misdirect	~ sb/sth instruct sb to go or send sth to the wrong place
miser	n. person who loves wealth for its own sake and spends as little as possible
miserable	very unhappy or uncomfortable; wretched
miserably	* We failed miserably to agree
miserliness	n.
miserly	like a miser; mean or selfish
misery	great suffering or discomfort
misfit	person not well suited to his work or his surroundings
misfortune	bad luck
misgive	verb (-gives, -giving, -gave, -given)
misgiving	n. (feeling of) doubt, worry, suspicion or distrust
misgivings	 [ misgiving: ] a feeling of uncertainty, apprehension, or doub
misguide	 to guide or direct wrongly or badly
mishap	 n. unlucky accident(usu not serious)
misinform	to give incorrect information to
misinformed	[ misinform: ] to give incorrect information to
misinterpret	 v. interpret wrongly; make a wrong inference from(sth)
misjudge	form a wrong opinion of
misjudgment	to judge (a person or persons) wrongly or unfairly
mislay	 v. (often euph ) put (sth) where it cannot easily be found; lose (sth), usu for a short time only
mislead	~ sb (about/as to sth) cause sb to have a wrong idea or impression about sb/sth
misleading	 adj. giving wrong ideas, etc; deceptive
mismanagement	n.
misnomer	 n. wrong use of a name, word or description
misogamy	 hatred of marriage
misogynist	 n. person who hates women
misogyny	 Hatred of women.
misplace	put (sth) in the wrong place
misread	~ sth (as sth) read sth wrongly
misrepresent	 to give a false or misleading representation of usually with an intent to deceive or be unfair
misrule	n. bad government; disorder or confusion
miss	failure to hit, catch or reach sth aimed at
missal	 n. book containing the prayers, etc for Mass throughout the year in the Roman Catholic Church
misshapen	adj. badly shaped; deformed
missile	object or weapon that is thrown or fired at a target
missing	that cannot be found or that is not in its usual place; lost
mission	group of people sent abroad, esp on political or commercial business
missionary	 n. person sent to preach usu the Christian religion, esp amongpeople who are ignorant of it
missive	n. letter, esp a long or official one
mist	cloud of minute drops of water vapour hanging just above the ground, less thick than fog but still difficult to see through
mistake	wrong idea or opinion; misconception
mistaken	~ wrong in opinion
mister	(full form, rarely used in writing, of the abbreviation Mr *Mr, )
mistimed	 [ mistime: ] to time (an action, utterance, etc.) wrongl
mistook	pt of mistake
mistral	n. the mistral strong cold dry N or NW wind that blows in S France, usu in winter
mistress	woman in a position of authority or control
mistrust	feel no confidence in
mistrustful	adj. ~ (of sb/sth)
mists	[ mist: ] a thin fog resulting from condensation in the air near the earth's surface
misty	full of or covered with mist
misunderstand	v. interpret (instructions, messages, etc) incorrectly; form a wrong opinion of (sb/sth)
misunderstanding n.	failure to understand rightly or correctly
misunderstood	adj. not properly or sympathetically understood
misuse	use in the wrong way or for the wrong purpose
mite	very small or modest contribution or offering
miter	The junction of two bodies at an equally divided angle.
mitigate	 v. make (sth) less severe, violent or painful; moderate
mitigation	 n.
mitre	tall pointed head-dress worn by bishops and abbots on ceremonial occasions as a symbol of their office
mitten	type of glove covering four fingers together and the thumb separately .
mix	v. ~ sth (for sb/sth) make or prepare sth by putting substances, etc together so that they are no longer distinct
mixer	device for mixing things
mixture	mixing orbeing mixed
mnemonic	 adj. of or designed to help the memory
mnemonics	a technique of improving the memory
moan	long low mournful sound, usu expressing regret, pain or suffering
moat	 n. deep wide ditch filled with water, dug round a castle, etc as a defence
moated	 adj. having a moat
mob	large disorderly crowd,esp one that has gathered to attack or cause mischief
mobile	that can move or be moved easily and quickly from place to place
mobility	 n. being mobile
mobilize	 to prepare for war or other emergency by organizing (national resources, the armed services, etc.)
mobocracy	Lawless control of public affairs by the mob or populace.
moccasin	 n. flat-soled shoe made from soft leather, as originally worn by N American Indians
mock	~ makefun of (sb/sth), esp by mimicking him/it contemptuously; ridicule
mockery	action of mocking sb/sth; scorn or ridicule
mode	~ (fml ) way or manner in which sth is done
model	representation of sth, usu smaller than the original
modem	n. device linking a computer system and eg a telephone line so that data can be transmitted at high speeds from one computer to another
moderate	average in amount, intensity, quality, etc; not extreme
moderately	 adv. to a moderate extent; not very; quite
moderation	quality of being moderate; freedom from excess; restraint
moderator	person who arbitrates in a dispute; mediator ;
modern	of the present or recent times; contemporary
modernism	n. modern ideas or methods in contrast to traditional ones, esp in art or religion
modernist	n. believer in or supporter of modernism . adj of or associated with modernism ;
modernistic	adj. noticeably modern; showing modernism
modernity	n. being modern
modernization	[ modernize: ] vt. to make modern in appearance or style
modernize	To make characteristic of the present or of recent times.
modest	not large in amount, size, etc; moderate
modesty	n. state of being modest
modicum	n. ~ small or moderate amount of sth
modification	 n. modifying or being modified
modify	change (sth) slightly, esp to make it less extreme or to improve it
modish	 adj. fashionable
modulate	vary the strength, volume or pitch of
modulation	 toning down; changing from one key to another
module	any one of a set of standardized parts or units that are made separately and are joined together to construct a building or piece of furniture
mogul	n. very rich, important or influential person
moiety	 n. ~ (of sth) (fml or law ) either of two parts into which sth is divided; half ;
moist	adj. slightly wet
moistness	[ moist: ] slightly damp or wet
moisture	 n. tiny drops of water on a surface, in the air, etc
molar	n. any of the teeth at the back of the jaw used for grinding and chewing food
molasses	thick dark syrup drained from raw sugar during the refining process
mold	 = mould
moldable	 [ mould: ] a shaped cavity used to give a definite form to fluid or plastic material
molding	= moulding
moldy	= mouldy (mould3)
molecular	adj. of or relating to molecules
molecule	 n. smallest unit into which a substance can be divided without a change in its chemical nature
molecules	[ molecule: ] the simplest unit of a chemical compound that can exist, consisting of two or more atoms held together by chemical bonds
molest	 v. trouble or annoy (sb) in a hostile way or in a way that causes injury
molester	 n: a child molester
mollification	n.
mollify	v. lessen the anger of (sb); make calmer; soothe
mollusc	n. any of the class of animals, including oysters, mussels, snails and slugs, that have a soft body, no backbone, and usu a hard shell
mollusk	invertebrate having a soft unsegmented body usually enclosed in a shell
mollycoddle	v. treat (sb) with too much kindness and protection; pamper
molt	specifically :ECDYSIS
molten	 adj. melted or made liquid by heating to a very high temperature
moment	very brief period of time
momentary	adj. lasting for a very short time
momentous	adj. very important; serious
momentum	force that increases the rate of development of a process; impetus
monadic	being or relating to a monad
monarch	n. supreme ruler; king, queen, emperor or empress
monarchist	 n. person who believes that a country should be ruled by a monarch
monarchy	system of government by a monarch
monastery	n. building in which monks live as a community
monastic	of or relating to monks or monasteries
monasticism	n. way of life of monks in monasteries
monaural	 adj. => monophonic
Monday	 n. the second day of the week, next after Sunday
monetary	 adj. of money or currency
money	n. means of payment, esp coins and banknotes, given and accepted in buying and selling
mongolism	n. = Down's syndrome
mongrel	dog of mixed breed
monition	 Friendly counsel given by way of warning and implying caution or reproof.
monitor	device used to observe, record or test sth
monitory	 Admonition or warning.
monk	 n. member of a religious community of men who live apart from the rest of society and who have made solemn promises, esp not to marry and not to have any possessions
monkey	member of the group of animals most similar to humans in appearance, esp a type of small long-tailed tree-climbing animal
monochromatic	having or consisting of one color or hue
monochrome	having or using images in black, white and shades of grey; black and white
monocle	n. single glass lens for one eye, kept in position by the muscles round the eye
monocracy	Government by a single person.
monogamous	 adj.
monogamy	 n. practice or custom of being married to only one person at a time
monogram	 n. two or more letterscombined in one design and marked on handkerchiefs, notepaper, etc ,
monograph	n. detailed scholarly study of one subject
monolith	 n. large single upright block of stone, usu shaped into a pillar or monument
monolithic	consisting of one or more monoliths
monologue	long speech by one person in a conversation, which prevents other people from talking; soliloquy ;
monomania	n. state of mind in which a person is obsessed with one idea or subject
monomaniac	 n. sufferer from monomania
monoplane	n. aeroplane with only one set of wings
monopolization	 [ monopolize: ] to have, control, or make use of fully, excluding others
monopolize	 to get a monopoly of:assume complete possession or control of
monopoly	sole right to supply or trade in some commodity or service
monosyllable	 n. word with only one syllable, eg it, and, no it and no
monotheism	 n. belief that there is only one God
monotheist	 n. believer in monotheism
monotone	way of speaking in which the pitch of the voice remains level and unchanging
monotonous	 adj. not changing and therefore uninteresting; boring or tedious
monotony	 n. state of being monotonous; lack of variety that causes weariness and boredom
monsieur	 n. (French) (title used before the name of a man to refer to him, or used alone as a formal and polite term of address) Mr; sir
monsoon	seasonal wind in S Asia, esp in the Indian Ocean, blowing from SW from April to October and from NE from October to April
monster	large, ugly and frightening creature, esp an imaginary one
monstrosity	n. thing that is large and very ugly
monstrous	shocking, unjust or absurd; outrageous
montage	picture, film or piece of music or writing made up of many separate items put together, esp in an interesting combination
month	any of the twelve periods of time into which the year is divided, eg May and June
monthly	done, happening, published, etc once a month or every month
monument	building, column, statue, etc built to remind people of a famous person or event
monumental	of, related to or serving as a monument
monumentally	 adv. extremely
mooch	~ sth (US infml ) get sth by asking; cadge sth
mood	state of one's feelings or mind at a particular time
moodiness	n.
moody	having moods that change quickly
moon	the moon) the natural body that moves round the earth once every 28 days and shines at night by light reflected from the sun
moonbeam	 n. ray of moonlight
moonlight	n. light of the moon
moor	 n. open uncultivated high area of land, esp one covered with heather
moot	 adj. a moot `point/`question matter about which there is uncertainty
mop	tool consisting of a bundle of thick strings or a piece of sponge fastened to a long handle, used for cleaning floors
mope	feel very unhappy and pity oneself
moppet	 a less common word for: poppet [1]
moral	concerning principles of right and wrong behaviour; ethical
morale	 n. state of confidence, enthusiasm, determination, etc of a person or group at a particular time
moralist	 n. person who expresses or teaches moral principles, esp one who tells people how they should behave
moralistic	 adj. having or showing definite but narrow beliefs and judgements about right and wrong actions
morality	principles of good behaviour
moralize	 To render virtuous.
morally	in a moral manner
morals	 [ moral: ] concerned with or relating to human behaviour, esp. the distinction between good and bad or right and wrong behaviour
morass	stretch of low soft wet land; marsh
moratorium	~ (on sth) temporary stopping of an activity, esp by official agreement
morbid	having or showing an interest in gloomy or unpleasant things, esp disease or death
morbidity	the ratio of deaths in an area to the population of that area; expressed per 1000 per year ; the relative incidence of a particular disease
mordant	adj. very sarcastic; biting
more	a greater or additional number or amount(of)
moreover	 adv. further; besides; in addition
mores	n. customs or conventions considered typical of or essential to a group or communtiy
morganatic	 adj. between a man of high rank (eg a prince) and a woman of lower rank who keeps her lower status, the children having no claim to the property, titles, etc of their father ,
morgue	 n. building in which dead bodies are kept before being buried or cremated; mortuary ;
moribund	 adj. at the point of death; about to come to an end
morning	early part of the day between dawn and noon or before the midday meal
Morocco	n. fine soft leather made from goatskins, or an imitation of this, used for making shoes and covers for books ,
moron	very stupid person
moronic	adj. (behaving) like a moron
morose	 adj. very unhappy, bad-tempered and silent; sullen
moroseness	 [ morose: ]
morphemics	 [ morpheme: ] mor'phemic adj.
morphology	scientific study of the form and structure of animals and plants
morsel	 n. ~ small amount or piece of sth, esp food
mortal	that must die; that cannot live for ever
mortality	state of being mortal
mortally	resulting in death
mortar	 n. mixture of lime or cement, sand and water, used to hold bricks, stones, etc together in building
mortgage	 n. agreement in which money is lent by a building society, bank, etc for buying a house or other property, the property being the security
mortician	n. =undertaker
mortification	strong feelings of embarrassment
mortify	cause (sb) to be very ashamed or embarrassed
mortise	n. hole cut in a piece of wood, etc to receive the end of another piece so that the two are held together ,
mortuary	 n. room or building in which dead bodies are kept before being buried or cremated
mosaic	picture or pattern made by placing together small pieces of glass, stone, etc of different colours
Moslem	 =Muslim
mosque	 n. building in which Muslims worship
mosquito	 n. small flying insect (esp the type that spreads malaria) the female of which sucks the blood of people and animals
moss	very small green or yellow flowerless plant growing in thick masses on damp surfaces or trees or stones
most	greatest in number, amount or extent ; . (det)
mostly	 adv. almost all; generally
mote	small particle, usu of dust; speck ;
motel	n. hotel for motorists, with space for parking cars near the rooms
motet	n. short piece of church music, usu for voices only
moth	insect like a butterfly but less brightly coloured, flying mainly at night and attracted to bright lights
mothball	small ball made of a strong-smelling substance, used for keeping moths away from stored clothes
moth-eaten	eaten, damaged or destroyed by moths
mother	female parent of a child or animal
motherhood	 n. state of being a mother
motherless	 adj. having no mother
motif	decorative design or pattern
motile	 exhibiting or capable of movement
motility	 ability to move spontaneously and independently
motion	moving
motionless	 adj. not moving; still
motivate	be the reason for cause (sb) to act in a particular way; inspire
motivated	adj. a politically motivated murder
motivation	 n.
motivational	 [ motivation: ] the act or an instance of motivating
motive	 n. ~ that which causes sb to act in a particular way; reason
motiveless	 adj. an apparently motiveless crime
motley	of many different types of people or things
motor	device that changes (usu electric) power into movement, used to make machines work
motorcycle	a two-wheeled vehicle, having a stronger frame than a bicycle, that is driven by a petrol engine, usually with a capacity of between 125 cc and 1000 cc
motorway	M) (US expressway) wide road specially built for fast-moving traffic, with a restricted number of places for entry and exit and separate carriageways for vehicles travelling in opposite directions
mottle	 to mark with spots or blotches of different color or shades of color as if stained
mottled	adj. marked with patches of different colours without a regular pattern
motto	short sentence or phrase chosen and used as a guide or rule of behaviour or as an expression of the aims or ideals of a family, a country, an institution, etc
mould	hollow container with a particular shape, into which a soft or liquid substance (eg jelly or molten metal) is poured to set or cool into that shape
moulder	v. ~ crumble to dust; decay slowly
mount	n. mountain; hill
mountain	mass of very high rock going up to a peak
mountaineer	n. person who is skilled at climbing mountains
mountainous	having many mountains
mountebank	 n. person who tries to cheat others by clever talk; swindler
mourn	v. ~ feel or show sorrow or regret for the loss of sb/sth
mournful	 adj. sad; sorrowful
mouse	(often in compounds ) (any of several kinds of) small rodent with a long thin tail
mouth	opening through which animals take in food; space behind this containing the teeth, tongue, etc
mouthful	as much as can easily be put into the mouth at one time
move	change of place or position
movement	moving or being moved
movie	cinema film
mow	cut (grass, etc) using a machine with blades, or a scythe
much	a large amount or quantity (of sth)
mucilage	 n. thick sticky fluid produced by plants, esp seaweed
muck	excrement of farm animals, esp as used for fertilizing; manure
muckrake	 disclose; uncover
mucky	dirty
mud	soft wet earth
muddle	~ sth (up) put sth into disorder; mix sth up
muddling	 adj. confusing
muddy	full of or covered in mud
muff	 n. hollow roll of fur or other warm material used to keep the hands warm in cold weather
muffle	~ sb/sth (in sth) wrap or cover sb/sth for warmth or protection
muffled	adj. heard indistinctly, because an obstacle is in the way
muffler	scarf or other cloth worn round the neck for warmth
mug	(usu straight-sided, fairly large) drinking vessel of china, metal or plastic with a handle, for use without a saucer
muggy	adj. (of weather) oppressively warm and damp
mulatto	n. person who has one black parent and one white
mulberry	 n. tree with broad, dark-green leaves on which silkworms feed
mulch	,
mulct	defraud a person of something; fine
mule	animal that is the offspring of a donkey and a horse, used for carrying loads and noted for its stubbornness
muleteer	 n. person who leads mules
mulish	 adj. stubborn; obstinate ;
mull	 v. make into a hot drink with sugar, spices, etc
multifaceted	 (of a gem) having many facets
multifarious	 adj. of many different kinds; having great variety
multiform	having many forms
multilateral	 adj. involving two or more participants
multilingual	speaking or using many languages
multiple	 adj. having or involving many individuals, items or types
multiplication	multiplying or being multiplied
multiplicity	 n. ~ of sth large number or great variety of things
multiply	~ A by B/~ A and B (together) add a number to itself a particular number of times
multitude	~ (of sb/sth) extremely large number of people or things (esp of people gathered or moving about in one area)
mum	silent
mumble	 v. ~ ~ sth (to sb) speak or say sth unclearly and usu quietly, so that people cannot hear what is said
mummy	n. body of a human being or animal that has been mummified for burial
mumps	n. disease with painful swellings in the neck, caught esp by children
munch	v. ~ chew (sth) with much movement of the jaw
mundane	adj. ordinary and typically unexciting
municipal	adj. of a town or city with its own local government
municipality	 n. town, city or district with its own local government; governing body of such a town, etc ;
munificence	n. great generosity
munificent	 adj. extremely generous; (of sth given) large in amount or splendid in quality
muniment	 (rare)
muniments	n. documents kept as evidence of rights or privileges
munition	 v. ~ sth provide sth with munitions
munitions	n. military supplies, esp guns, shells, bombs, etc
mural	n. painting done on a wall
murder	unlawful killing of a human being intentionally
murderer	 n. person guilty of murder
murky	unpleasantly dark; gloomy
murmur	low continuous indistinct sound
muscle	length of stretchable tissue in an animal body that is attached at each end to bone and can be tightened or relaxed to produce movement
muscular	of the muscles
musculature	the arrangement of muscles in an organ or part
muse	the Muses the nine goddesses, daughters of Zeus or Jupiter, who protected and encouraged poetry, music, dancing, history and other branches of art and literature ,
museum	 n. building in whichobjects of artistic, cultural, historical or scientific importanceand interest are displayed
mushroom	 n. fast-growing fungus with a round flattish head and a stalk, of which some kinds can be eaten
mushy	like mush
music	art of arranging the sounds of voice(s) or instrument(s) or both in a pleasing sequence or combination
musical	of or for music
musically	in or of music
musician	 n. person who makes music by playing or conducting
musicianship	 n. art and skill in music
musicology	 n. academic study of music
musket	 n. long-barrelled firearm used by soldiers from the 16th to the 19th centuries 1619
muskie	 (Canadian)
musky	adj. (smelling) like musk
must	(indicating obligation )
mustache	 = moustache
mustard	plant with yellow flowers and sharp-tasting seeds in long thin pods
muster	assembly or gathering of people or things, esp for review or inspection
musty	smelling or tasting stale, mouldy and damp
mutability	 n.
mutable	adj. liable to change; likely to change ;
mutate	 v. ~ (cause sth to) undergo mutation
mutated	[ mutate: ]
mutation	 n. change; alteration
mute	silent; making no sound
muted	(of a sound or colour) softened
mutilate	 v. injure, damage or disfigure by breaking, tearing or cutting off a necessary part
mutilation	 n. mutilating or being mutilated
mutineer	 n. person guilty of mutiny
mutinous	 adj. guilty of mutiny; refusing to obey; rebellious
mutiny	 n. rebellion against lawful authority, esp by soldiers or sailors
mutter	~ (to sb) (about sth) speak or say (sth) in a low voice that is hard to hear
mutterer	 n. person who mutters
mutton	meat from a fully grown sheep
mutual	felt or done by each towards the other
muzzle	nose and mouth of an animal (eg a dog or fox)
muzzy	unable to think clearly; confused
my	of or belonging to the speaker or writer
mycology	 n. science or study of fungi
myopia	short-sightedness
myopic	short-sighted
myriad	 n. extremely large number
myself	(reflex ) (used when the speaker or writer is also the person affected by an action )
mysterious	full of mystery; hard to understand or explain
mystery	thing of which the cause or origin is hidden or impossible to explain
mystic	of hidden meaning or spiritual power, esp in religion
mystical	 relating to or characteristic of mysticism
mysticism	n. belief or experiences of a mystic; teaching and belief that knowledge of God and of real truth may be reached through meditation or spiritual insight, independently of reason and the senses
mystification	mystifying or being mystified
mystify	v. make (sb) confused through lack of understanding; puzzle; bewilder
mystique	 n. quality of sth which is not fully known about or understood but is seen to be admirable or special
myth	story that originated in ancient times, esp one dealing with ideas or beliefs about the early history of a race, or giving explanations of natural events, such as the seasons
mythical	existing in myth
mythological	 adj. of or in mythology or myths
mythologist	n. person who studies myths
mythologize	to tell, study, or explain (myths)
mythology	study or science of myths
myxomatosis	n. fatal infectious disease of rabbits
n	north(ern)
nab	v. (Brit infml ) catch (sb) doing wrong; seize
nadir	point in the heavens directly beneath an observer
nag	n. horse
nail	layer of horny substance over the outer tip of a finger or toe
naive	natural and innocent in speech and behaviour; unaffected
naivete	[ naivety: ] the state or quality of being naive; ingenuousness; simplicity
naivety	quality of being naive
naked	without clothes on
name	word or words by which a person, an animal, a place or a thing is known and spoken to or of
nameless	having no name or no known name; anonymous
namely	 adv. that is to say; specifically
nap	n. short sleep, esp during the day
naphtha	n. type of inflammable oil obtained from coal tar and petrol
napkin	piece of cloth or paper used at meals for protecting one's clothes and wiping one's lips and fingers
narcissism	 n. abnormal and excessive love or admiration for oneself
narcissist	 [ narcissism: ] an exceptional interest in or admiration for oneself, esp. one's physical appearance
narcissistic	 (adj.) egotistical; self-centered; self-love, excessive interest in ones appearance, comfort, abilities, etc.
narcissus	n. any of severaltypes of spring flowering bulbs, including the daffodil
narcotic	substance causing sleep or drowsiness
narky	(slang)
narrate	v. tell (a story); give a written or spoken account of
narration	activity of telling a story, etc
narrative	spoken or written account of events; story
narrator	 n. person who narrates
narrow	of small width compared with length
narrowly	only just; by only a small margin
narrow-minded	adj. not readyto listen to or tolerate the views of others
narrowness	 n.
narwhal	n. Arctic animal like a whale, the male of which has a long spiral tusk
NASA	= National Aeronautics and Space Administration
nasal	adj. of, for or in the nose
nascent	adj. beginning to exist; not yet well developed
nasty	unpleasant; disgusting
natal	pertaining to birth
natation	 swimming
nation	 n. large community of people, usu sharing a common history, language, etc, and living in a particular territory under one government
national	of a nation; common to or characteristic of a whole nation
nationality	membership of a particular nation
native	person born in a place, country, etc, and associated with it by birth
nativity	the Nativity the birth of Jesus Christ
nattily	adv. (often derog )
natty	(often derog ) smart and tidy; neat
natural	of, concerned with or produced by nature(1), not by human beings
naturalist	 n. person who studies animals, plants, birds and other living things
naturally	by nature
naturalness	n. state or quality of being natural
nature	the whole universe and every created, not man-made, thing
naught	 = nought 2
naughty	(infml ) (used by adults when talking to or about children ) disobedient; bad; causing trouble
nausea	 n. feeling of sickness or disgust
nauseate	 v. make feel nausea
nauseating	 [ nauseate: ] vt. to arouse feelings of disgust or revulsion
nauseous	causing nausea; disgusting ;
nautical	 adj. of ships, sailors or navigation
naval	adj. of a navy; of warships
nave	 n. long central part of a church, where the congregationsits .
navel	n. small hollow in themiddle of the belly where the umbilical cord was attachedat birth .
navigable	suitable for ships, boats, etc to sail on
navigate	find the position and plot the course of a ship, an aircraft, a car, etc, using maps and instruments
navigation	action of navigating
navy	 n. country's force of ships and their crews
naysay	 denial, refusal
naysayer	 one who denies, refuses, opposes, or is skeptical or cynical about something
neap	 n. tide when there is least difference between high and low water
near	within a short distance or time from sb/sth; not far (from sb/sth) ;
nearby	 adj. near in position; not far away
nearly	not completely; almost; very close to
neat	(of things) arranged in an orderly way; done carefully; tidy
neatness	 n.
nebula	 n. light or dark patch in the night sky caused by a cluster of very distant stars or a cloud of dust or gas
nebular	adj. of nebulas
nebulous	cloudlike; hazy ;
necessarily	adv. as an inevitable result
necessary	essential for a purpose; that cannot be done without or avoided
necessitate	v. make (sth) necessary
necessitous	adj. poor; needy
necessity	~ circumstances that force one to do sth; state of being necessary; need
neck	part of the body that connects the head to the shoulders
necklace	 n. ornament of pearls, beads, etc worn round the neck
necrology	obituary notice; list of the dead
necromancer	n. person who practises necromancy
necromancy	 n. art or practice of communicating by magic with the dead in order to learn about the future
necropolis	 n. cemetery, esp a large ancient one
necrosis	 the death of part of the body.
nectar	sweet liquid produced by flowers and collected by bees for making honey
nectarine	n. type of peach with a thin smooth skin and firm flesh
need	 modal v. (used only in negative sentences and questions, after if and whether or with hardly, scarcely, no one, etc(indicating obligation)
needle	small thin piece of polished steel with a point at one end and a hole for thread at the other, used in sewing
needless	without need; unnecessary
needlessly	 [ needless: ] adj. not required or desired; unnecessary
needlework	 n. sewing or embroidery
needy	adj. without the things that are needed for life, ie food and shelter; very poor
nefarious	adj. wicked; unlawful
negate	deny or disprove the existence of (sb/sth)
negation	action of denying
negative	expressing denial or refusal; indicating `no' or `not'
neglect	give no or not enough care or attention to
neglectful	 adj. ~ in the habit of neglecting things or people
negligee	 A loose gown worn by women.
negligence	 n. lack of proper care or attention; carelessness
negligent	adj. not giving proper attention or care to sth; careless
negligible	 adj. of little importance or size; not worth considering
negotiable	that can be settled by discussion
negotiate	~ (with sb) try to reach agreement by discussion
negotiation	n. discussion aimed at reaching an agreement; negotiating
negotiator	 n. person who negotiates
Negro	n. (sometimes offensive ) member of the black-skinned race of mankind that originated in Africa
neigh	n. long high-pitched cry of a horse
neighbour	person living next to or near another
neighbourhood	district; area near a particular place
neighbouring	 [ neighbour: ] a person who lives near or next to another
neither	indef det, indef pron not one nor the other of two . (det)
nemesis	n. (usu sing) (fml) deserved and unavoidable punishment for wrong doing
Neo-Latin	Modernized Latin.
neolithic	adj. of the later part of the Stone Age
neologism	newly-invented word
neon	 n. chemical element, a colourless inert gas much used in illuminated signs because it glows with a bright light when an electric current is passed through it
neonate	a baby from birth to four weeks
neophyte	person recently converted to some belief or religion
Neoplatonism	 [ Neo-Platonism: ] adj. "Neo-'Platonist noun, adjectiv
nephew	 n. son of one's brother or sister, or son of one's brother-in-law or sister-in-law
nephritis	n. inflammation of the kidneys
nepotism	 n. practice among people with power or influence of favouring their own relatives, esp by giving them jobs
Neptune	n. the planet eighth in order from the sun, one of the furthest in the solar system
nerve	fibre or bundle of fibres carrying impulses of sensation or of movement between the brain and all parts of the body
nerveless	adj. lacking strength; unable to move
nervous	of the nerves
nervousness	n.
nervy	(Brit) excitable; uneasy; jumpy ;
nest	place or structure chosen or made by a bird for laying its eggs and sheltering its young
nestle	settle comfortably and warmly in a soft place
nestling	 n. bird that is too young to leave the nest
net	loose open material made of string, thread, wire, etc knotted or woven together
nether	 adj. lower
nethermost	 farthest down
nettle	common wild plant with hairs on its leaves that sting and redden the skin when touched
network	complex system of roads, etc crossingeach other
neural	 adj. of the nerves
neurological	 adj. neurological research
neurology	n. scientific study of nerves and their diseases
neuron	 [ neurone: ] adj.
neurosis	 n. (medical) mental illness that causes depression or abnormal behaviour, often with physical symptoms but with no sign of disease
neurotic	 adj. caused by or suffering from neurosis; abnormally anxious or obsessive
neuter	(of a word) neither masculine nor feminine in gender
neutral	not supporting or helping either side in a dispute, contest,war, etc; impartial
neutrality	 n. state of being neutral, esp in war
neutralization	to render or become ineffective or neutral by counteracting, mixing, etc.; nullify
neutralize	 to counteract the activity or effect of:make ineffective
neutron	n. particle carrying no electric charge, with about the same mass as a proton,and forming part of the nucleus of an atom
never	at no time; on no occasion; not ever
nevertheless	 adv, conj in spite of this; however; still
new	not existing before; seen, introduced, made, invented, etc recently or for the first time
newly	recently
news	new or fresh information; report(s) of recent events
newsagent	n. (US `newsdealer) shopkeeper who sells newspapers, magazines, etc
newspaper	printed publication, issued usu daily or weekly with news, advertisements, articles on various subjects, etc
Newton	one of the deepest craters on the moon, over 7300 metres deep and about 112 kilometres in diameter, situated in the SE quadrant
next	(usu with the the) coming immediately after (sb/sth) in order, space or time
nexus	n. (fml ) connected group or series; bond or connection
nib	n. metal point of a pen
nibble	~ (at sth) take tiny bites of sth
nice	pleasant; agreeable
nicety	accuracy; precision
niche	shallow recess, esp in a wall
nick	small cut or notch
nickel	chemical element, a hard silver-white metal often used in alloys
nickname	 n. familiar or humorous name given to a person instead of or as well as his real name, often a short form of the real name, or a referenceto the person's character, etc
nicotine	 n. poisonous oily substance found in tobacco
niece	n. daughter of one's brother or sister, or daughter of one's brother-in-law or sister-in-law
nifty	clever; skilful
niggard	n. mean stingy person
niggardly	mean; stingy
niggle	~ give too much time and attention to unimportant details; criticize in a petty way
niggling	too unimportant to give time or attention to; trifling
night	time of darkness between sunset and sunrise
nightmare	frightening dream
nihilism	total rejection of all religious and moral beliefs
nihilist	 n. believer in nihilism
nihilistic	 adj. of nihilism
nil	n. nothing, esp as the score in games
nimble	 adj. able to move quickly and neatly; agile
nincompoop	 n. foolish person
nine	9; one more than eight 9.
ninepin	ninepins game in which a ball is rolled along the floor at nine bottle-shaped blocks of wood in order to knock them down
nineteen	 pron, det 19; one more than eighteen 19.
nineteenth	 pron, det 19th; next after eighteenth 19. n one of nineteen equal parts of sth . For the uses of nineteen and nineteenth see the examples at five and fifth. nineteennineteenthfivefifth
ninetieth	pron, det 90th; next after eighty-ninth 90. n one of ninety equal parts of sth
ninety	 pron, det 90; one more than eighty-nine 90.
ninth	pron. det 9th; next after eighth 9 . n one of nine equal parts of sth
nip	press (sth) hard (eg between the finger and thumb, or the teeth, or with the claws as a crab does); pinch
nipper	claw of a crab, lobster, etc
nippers	an instrument or tool, such as a pair of pliers, for snipping, pinching, or squeezin
nipping	[ nip: ] to catch or tightly compress, as between a finger and the thumb; pinch
nippy	nimble; quick
nirvana	n. state of perfect bliss in which the individual becomes absorbed into the supreme spirit
nit	louse or other parasitic insect
nitpick	be overly critical; criticize minor details
nitpicking	 minute and usually unjustified criticism
nitrate	n. salt formed by the chemical reaction of nitric acid with an alkali, esp potassium nitrate or sodium nitrate, used as fertilizers
nitrogen	 n. chemical element, a gas without colour, taste or smell that forms about four-fifths of the atmosphere .
no	not any; not one; not a
noble	adj. belonging to the aristocracy by birth or rank
nobly	adv. in a noble manner; splendidly
nobody	 neg pron not anybody; no person
nocturnal	of or in the night; done or happening in the night
nocturne	soft dreamy piece of music
nod	~ (to/at sb) move (the head) down and then up again quickly to show agreement, or as a greeting or command
noggin	small measure of alcoholic drink, usu pint
noise	sound, esp when it is loud, unpleasant, confused or unwanted
noiseless	adj. making little or no noise
noisome	adj. offensive; disgusting; stinking
noisy	making or accompanied by a lot of noise
nomad	member of a tribe that wanders from place to place looking for pasture for its animals and having no fixed home
nomadic	adj. of nomads; wandering
nomenclature	 n. system of naming, esp in a particular branch of science
nominal	existing, etc in name only; not real or actual
nominate	~ sb formally propose that sb should be chosen for a position, office, task, etc
nomination	 n. nominating or being nominated
nominee	n. person who is nominated for an office, a position, etc
nonage	 n. state of being under full legal age; minority(2)
nonchalance	indifference; lack of interest
nonchalant	 adj. not feeling or showing interest or enthusiasm; calm and casual
noncommittal	 neutral; unpledged; undecided
nonconformist	who does not conform to normal socialconventions
nonconformity	failure to conform to normal social conventions
noncontemporaneous 
	noncontemporaneous 
nondescript	n, adj without a distinctive character and so not easily classified
none	~ (of sb/sth) (referring back to a plural n or pron ) not one; not any
nonentity	person without any special qualities or achievements; unimportant person
nonesuch	 n. person or thing that is better than all others
nonetheless	adv. nevertheless; however
nonfiction	 writing dealing with facts and events rather than imaginative narration
nonflammable	specifically :not easily ignited and not burning rapidly if ignited
nonpareil	n. adj (person or thing) without an equal or rival
nonplus	v. surprise or puzzle (sb) greatly
nonplused	[ nonplus: ] vt. to put at a loss; confound
nonplussed	 greatly surprised
nonsense	meaningless words
nonsensical	adj. not making sense; absurd
nonskid	designed to reduce or prevent skidding
nonviolent	 abstaining (on principle) from the use of violence ; achieved without bloodshed
nook	sheltered quiet place or corner
noon	 n. (used without a or the athe) 1
noose	loop in one end of a rope, with a knot that allows the loop to be tightened as the other end of the rope is pulled
nor	and not
norm	standard or pattern that is typical (of a group, etc)
normal	in accordance with what is typical, usual or regular
normalcy	 The state of being normal.
normality	n. state of being normal
normalization	the act or process of normalizing
normalize	to bring or make into the normal state
normally	 adv.
Norman	of the style introduced into England in the 11th century by invaders from Normandy in France (Normans) 11
normative	adj. describing or setting standards or rules of language, behaviour, etc, which should be followed
north	(esp with the the) one of the four main points of the compass, lying to the left of a person facing the sunrise
northeast	the point of the compass or direction midway between north and east, 45 clockwise from north
northern	 adj. of or in the north
northernmost	 adj. lying farthest to the north
northwards	 adv. towards the north .
northwest	the point of the compass or direction midway between north and west, clockwise 315 from north
nose	part of the face above the mouth, used for breathing and smelling
nosedive	sharp vertical descent by an aircraft, etc, with the nose pointing towards the earth
nosegay	n. small bunch of flowers
nostalgia	n. sentimental longing for things that are past
nostalgic	adj. of, feeling or causing nostalgia
nostril	n. either of the two external openings in the nose through which the breath passes .
nostrum	medicine falsely recommended as effective; quack remedy ;
not	; -n't)
notability	 n. famous or important person
notable	adj. deserving to be noticed; remarkable
notably	adv. noticeably; remarkably
notch	~ V-shaped cut in an edge or surface V
notched	notched like a saw with teeth pointing toward the apex ; having an irregularly notched or toothed margin as though gnawed
note	short written record to aid the memory
notebook	 n. small book for writing notes in
noted	adj. ~ well-known; famous
noteworthiness	 [ noteworthy: ] adj. worthy of notice; notable
noteworthy	 adj. deserving to be noted; remarkable
nothing	not anything; no single thing
notice	written or printed news or information, usu displayed publicly
noticeable	 adj. easily seen or noticed
notify	 v. ~ sb (of sth); ~ sth to sb (fml ) inform sb (of sth); report sth to sb
notion	~ idea or belief; concept
notoriety	n. fame for being bad in some way
notorious	adj. ~ (derog ) well-known for some bad quality, deed, etc
notoriously	adv.
notwithstanding	prep (can also follow the n to which it refers ) without being affected by (sth); in spite of
nought	the figure 0
noun	 n. word which can be the subject or object of a verb or the object of a preposition; word marked n in this dictionary
nourish	keep alive and well with food
nourishment	n. food
nova	 n. (astronomy) star that suddenly becomes much brighter for a short period
novel	adj. new and strange; of a kind not known before
novelettish	adj. characteristic of a novelette; trite or sentimenta
novelty	quality of being novel; newness; strangeness
November	 n. the eleventh month of the year, next after October
novice	person who is new and inexperienced in a job, situation, etc; beginner
novocaine	procaine administered as a hydrochloride; novocain is a trademark
now	at the present time
nowadays	 adv. at the present time
nowhere	not anywhere
noxious	adj. harmful; poisonous
nozzle	 n. spout or end-piece of a pipe, etc through which a stream of air or liquid is directed ,
nuance	 n. subtle difference in meaning, colour, feeling, etc
nubile	old enough to marry
nuclear	of a nucleus, esp of an atom
nucleate	 to form into a nucleus:CLUSTER
nucleus	central part, around which other parts are grouped or collected
nude	 adj. naked
nudge	touch or push with one's elbow to draw his attention to sth
nudity	 n. nakedness
nugatory	 adj. worthless; pointless; not valid
nuisance	 n. thing, person or behaviour that is troublesome or annoying
nullify	make (an agreement, etc) lose its legal force
nullity	n. lack of legal force; lack of validity
numb	 adj. without the power to feel or move
number	symbol or word indicating a quantity of units; numeral
numbness	 without ability to move a finger
numeration	 n. method or process of numbering
numerical	adj. of, expressed in or representing numbers
numerically	adv. in terms of numbers
numerology	 study of numbers
numerous	 adj. very many
numinous	 adj. inspiring awe; divine ;
numismatic	 the collection and study of money (and coins in particular)
numismatics	n. study of coins, coinage and medals
numismatist	n. expert in numismatics; collector of coins and medals ;
nun	n. woman living in a convent, usu after taking religious vows
nunnery	n. house where an order of nuns lives; convent ;
nuptial	adj. of marriage or of a wedding
nuptials	 n. wedding
nurse	person, usu female, trained to help a doctor to look after the sick or injured
nursery	place where young children are cared for, usu while their parents are at work, etc
nurture	care for and educate
nut	fruit consisting of a hard shell with a kernel inside it that can be eaten
nutrient	 n, adj (substance) serving as or providing nourishment, esp for plants or animals
nutriment	n. nourishing food
nutrition	nourishment; food
nutritional	adj. the nutritional value of a food
nutritionist	 n. expert in nutrition
nutritious	 adj. of (high) value as food; nourishing
nutritive	serving as food
nuzzle	press or rub gently with the nose
nylon	very strong man-made fibre used for hosiery, rope, brushes, etc
nymph	minor goddess living in rivers, trees, hills, etc
oaf	n. stupid, clumsy and awkward person (usu male)
oafish	 adj. like an oaf; roughly behaved
oak	(also `oak-tree) type of tree with tough hard wood, common in many parts of the world
oaken	adj. made of oak
oakum	Hemp-fiber obtained by untwisting and picking out loosely the yarns of old hemp rope.
oar	long pole with a flat blade, pulled by hand in order to drive a boat through the water .
oasis	n. fertile place, with water and trees, in a desert
oath	(words used in making a) solemn promise to do sth or solemn declaration that sth is true (usu appealing to God, etc as a witness)
oatmeal	n. meal made from crushed oats, used in porridge, oatcakes, etc
obbligato	n. (music) accompanying part forming an essential part of a compositio
obdurate	 adj. impossible to change; stubborn
obedience	n. action of obeying; being obedient
obedient	doing what one is told to do; willing to obey
obeisance	deep bow (of respect or obedience)
obelisk	n. tall pointed stone pillar with four sides, set up as a monument or landmark
obese	adj. (of people) very fat
obesity	n. being obese
obey	 v. do what one is told or obliged to do by carry out (a command )
obfuscate	v. (deliberately) make (sth) confused or difficult to understand
obfuscation	[ obfuscate: ] to obscure or darken
obituary	 n. printed notice (eg in a newspaper) of a person's death, often with a short account of his life and achievements
object	solid thing that can be seen and touched
objectify	to represent concretely; present as an object
objection	~ (expression of a) feeling of dislike, disapproval or opposition
objectionable	adj. causing opposition or disapproval; unpleasant
objective	not influenced by personal feelings or opinions; unbiased; fair
objectivity	n. state of being objective(1); ability to free oneself from personal prejudice; impartiality
oblation	 the Eucharist; pious donation
obligate	 v. compel (sb) legally or morally (to do sth)
obligation	law, moral pressure, promise, etc that forces one to do sth
obligatory	 adj. required by rule, law or custom; compulsory
oblige	compel or require by law, agreement or moral pressure to do sth
obliging	 adj. willing to help
oblique	not horizontal or vertical; sloping; slanting
obliqueness	[ oblique: ] at an angle; slanting; sloping
obliquity	state of being oblique
obliterate	remove all signs of (sth); rub or blot out
oblivion	state of forgetting; state of being unaware or unconscious
oblivious	adj. ~ of/to sth unaware of or not noticing sth; having no memory of sth
obliviousness	n.
oblong	 n, adj with four straight sides and angles of 90, longer than it is wide
obloquy	n. public shame or disgrace; abuse; discredit ;
obnoxious	adj. very unpleasant; nasty; offensive
obnoxiousness	n.
obscene	adj. indecent, esp sexually; disgusting and offensive; likely to corrupt
obscuration	[ obscure: ] unclear or abstruse
obscure	not easily or clearly seen or understood; indistinct; hidden
obscured	 [ obscure: ] unclear or abstruse
obscurity	state of being obscure
obsequies	n. funeral ceremonies
obsequious	 adj. ~ (to sb) too willing to obey or serve; too respectful (esp in the hope of getting a reward or favour from sb)
obsequiousness	 n.
obsequy	exequies; funeral; interment
observable	 adj. that can be seen or noticed
observance	~ keeping or observing (observe
observant	quick at noticing things
observation	action of observing; being observed
observatory	n. building from which the stars, the weather, etc can be observed by scientists
observe	v. see and notice (sb/sth); watch carefully
observer	person who observes
obsess	 v. fill the mind of continually
obsessed	to preoccupy completely; haunt
obsession	state of being obsessed
obsessional	adj. of, having or causing obsession(s)
obsessive	adj. of or having an obsession
obsessively	adv. in an obsessive manner
obsidian	 black volcanic rock
obsolescence	 n. being obsolescent
obsolescent	adj. becoming out of date; going out of use
obsolete	 adj. no longer used; out of date
obstacle	 n. thing in the way that either stops progress or makes it difficult
obstetrician	 n. doctor who specializes in obstetrics
obstetrics	 n. branch of medicine and surgery concerned with childbirth
obstinacy	n. being obstinate; stubbornness
obstinate	refusing to change one's opinion or chosen course of action; stubborn
obstreperous	 adjnoisy and uncontrolled; unruly
obstruct	 v. ~ sth (with sth) be or get in the way of (sb/sth); block (a road, passage, etc) ,
obstruction	action of obstructing; being obstructed
obstructionism	 n. deliberate and systematic obstruction of plans, legislation, etc
obstructionist	 n. person who uses or favours obstructionism
obstructive	adj. obstructing or likely or intended to obstruct
obtain	~ sth et sth; come to own or possess sth (by buying, borrowing, taking, etc)
obtainable	 adj. that can be obtained
obtrude	v. ~(on/upon sb/sth) (fml ) force (oneself, one's opinions, ideas, etc) upon sb/sth, esp when unwanted
obtrusive	adj. very noticeable or obvious; inclined to obtrude
obtuse	 adj. slow to understand; stupid
obverse	face, side, or part of a thing that is most noticeable or intended to be seen or shown
obviate	v. remove (sth); get rid of
obvious	adj. easily seen, recognized or understood; clear
obviously	adv. as can be clearly seen; plainly
occasion	particular time
occasional	happening, coming, done, etc from time to time; not regular
occasionally	 adv. now and then; at times
Occident	 n. the Occident the countries of the West, ie Europe and America
occidental	 n. person from the Occident
occlude	to close up or block off:OBSTRUCT
occluded	 blocked up
occult	 adj. only for those with special knowledge or powers; hidden, secret
occupant	 n. person who occupies a house, room or position, or who possesses and occupies land
occupation	action of occupying; state of being occupied (occupy 1)
occupational	 adj. of, caused by or connected with a person's job
occupied	in use; filled
occupier	 n. person who has possession of land or a building; occupant
occupy	live in or have possession of (a house, land, etc)
occur	come into being as an event or a process; happen
occurrence	event; incident; happening
ocean	mass of salt water that covers most of the earth's surface
Oceania	the islands of the central and S Pacific, including Melanesia, Micronesia, and Polynesia: sometimes also including Australasia and the Malay Archipelago
o'clock	adv. (used with the numbers to 1
octagon	n. flat figure with eight sides and eight angles
octagonal	adj. having eight sides
octane	 n. hydrocarbon compound present in petrol and used as a measure of its quality and efficiency
octave	note that is six whole tones above or below a given note
octavo	oct) (size of a) book or page produced by folding a piece of paper of standard size three times to give eight sheets
October	n. the tenth month of the year, next after September
octogenarian	 n. person between 80 and 89 years of age 8089
octopus	n. sea-animal with a soft body and eight long arms with suckers on them
ocular	of, for, by, the eyes
oculist	n. specialist in treating diseases and defects of the eye
od	 an overdose of a drug
odd	strange; unusual; peculiar
oddity	quality of being odd(1); strangeness
oddly	adv. in a strange or peculiar manner
oddment	n. piece left over or remaining; remnant
oddments	an odd piece or thing; leftover
odds	probability or chance
ode	n. poem expressing noble feeling, often written to a person or thing, or celebrating some special event
odious	disgusting; hateful
odium	n. general or widespread hatred or disgust felt towards a person or his actions
odometer	 n. = milometer
odor	 smell; favor; reputation
odoriferous	giving off an order
odorous	adj. having a (pleasant or unpleasant) smell
odour	(pleasant or unpleasant) smell
odyssey	n. long adventurous journey
oesophagus	 n. (medical ) tube through which food, etc passes from the mouth to the stomach; gullet
of	belonging to . (followed by a possess pron or by a n, usu with 's , 's)
off	= off-side
offal	n. internal parts of an animal used as food; once considered to be less valuable than its flesh
offbeat	eccentric, unconventional
offence	~ breaking of a rule or law; illegal act; crime
offend	cause (sb) to feel upset or angry; hurt the feelings of
offender	 n. person who offends, esp by breaking a law
offense	attacking team or section; method of attack
offensive	upsetting or annoying; insulting
offer	~ sth (for sth) put forward sth (to sb) to be considered and accepted or refused; present
offering	action of presenting sth
offertory	n. money collected during or at the end of a religious service
offhand	adj. too casual; abrupt
office	room(s) or building used as a place of business, esp for clerical or administrative work
officer	person appointed to command others in the army, navy, air force, etc
official	of or concerning a position of authority or trust
officially	in an official manner; formally
officiate	v. ~ perform the duties of an office(4) or position
officious	adj. too ready or willing to give orders, offer advice or help, or use one's authority; bossy and interfering
offish	 somewhat cold and reserved:STANDOFFISH
off-key	adj. adv out of tune
offset	 v. ~ sth (by sth/doing sth) compensate for sth; balance sth
offshoot	 n. stem or branch growing from a main stem
offshore	at sea not far from the land
offspring	n. (fml ) child or children of a particular person or couple
offstage	out of the view of the audience; off the stag
often	many times; at short intervals; frequently
ogle	 v. ~ at sb look or stare at (esp a woman) in a way that suggests sexual interest
ogre	(in legends and fairy stories) cruel and frightening giant who eats people
ogreish	[ ogre: ] (in folklore) a giant, usually given to eating human flesh
oh	 )
ohm	n. unit of electrical resistance
oil	any of various thick slippery liquids that do not mix with water and burn easily,obtained from animals, plants, minerals, etc
oil rig	structure and equipment for drilling oil
oilskin	n. (coat, etc made of) cloth treated with oil to make it waterproof
oily	of or like oil
ointment	smooth greasy paste rubbed on the skin to heal injuries or roughness, or as a cosmetic
OK	 [ O.K.: ] an expression of approval, agreement, etc.
okay	 adj. adv all right; satisfactory or satisfactorily
old	adj. =>Usage at elder elder1. 1 (with a period of time or with how how) of (a particular) age
oleaginous	 adj. like oil or producing oil; oily; fatty
olfaction	the sense of smell
olfactory	adj. of or concerned with the sense of smell
oligarch	 n. member of an oligarchy
oligarchy	form of government in which a small group of people hold all the power
olive	small bitter oval fruit, green when unripe and black when ripe, used for food and for oil
Olympic	adj. of or connected with the Olympic Games
ombudsman	n. official appointed by a government to investigate and report on complaints made by citizens against public authorities
omelet	 [ omelette: ] a savoury or sweet dish of beaten eggs cooked in fat
omelette	eggs beaten together and fried, often with cheese, herbs, vegetables, etc or with a sweet filling
omen	 n. ~ (event regarded as a) sign that sth good or bad will happen in the future
ominous	adj. suggesting that sth bad is about to happen; threatening
omission	action of omitting or leaving out sb/sth
omit	fail or neglect to do sth; leave sth not done
omnibus	(dated fml , ) (esp in names) bus
omnipotence	Unlimited and universal power.
omnipotent	 adj. having unlimited or very great power
omnipresent	adj. present everywhere
omniscience	Unlimited or infinite knowledge.
omniscient	 adj. knowing everything
omnivorous	(of animals) eating both plants and animal flesh
on	)
once	on one occasion only; one time
oncologist	 [ oncology: ] adj. on'cologist nou
oncology	 adj. on'cologist nou
one	1; one less than two; a single 1
onerous	adj. needing effort; burdensome
oneself	(reflex ) (used when people in general cause and are also affected by an action )
ongoing	adj. continuing to exist or progress
onion	type of vegetable plant with a round bulb that has a strong smell and flavour, used in cooking
onlooker	 n. person who watches sth happening (without taking part); spectator
only	with no otherof the same group, style, etc existing or present; sole
onomatopoeia	 n. combination of sounds in a word that imitates or suggests what the word refers to eg hiss, cuckoo, thud ; hiss cuckoo thud
onomatopoeic	 adj. `Sizzle' and `hush' are onomatopoeic words. sizzlehush
onrush	 n. strong forward rush or flow
onset	n. vigorous beginning
onslaught	n. ~ fierce attack
onto	moving to a position on
ontology	 n. branch of metaphysics that deals with the nature ofexistence
onus	 n. the onus duty or responsibility (for doing sth); burden
onward	 adj. directed or moving forward
oomph	n. energy; enthusiasm; sex-appeal
ooze	~ from/out of sth; ~ out/away come or flow out slowly
opacity	n. quality of being opaque
opalescence	The property of combined refraction and reflection of light, resulting in smoky tints.
opalescent	 adj. changing colour like an opal; iridescent
opaque	not allowing light to pass through; not transparent
opaqueness	 [ opaque: ] not transmitting light; not transparent or translucent
open	allowing things or people to go or be taken in, out or through; not closed
opened	 [ open: ] not closed or barred
opener	person or (esp) thing that opens
opening	way in or out; open space; gap
openly	 adv. without secrecy; honestly; publicly
open-minded	adj. willing to consider new ideas; unprejudiced
openness	 n. honesty; frankness
opera	play in which words are sung to a musical accompaniment
operate	(fml ) work; be in action
operation	way in which sth works; working
operational	of, for or used in operations
operative	operating; effective; in use
operator	person who operates equipment, a machine, etc
operetta	 n. short light musical comedy
ophthalmology	n. scientific study of the eye and its diseases
opiate	 n. drug containing opium, used to relieve pain or to help sb sleep
opine	to express opinions
opinion	~ belief or judgement (about sb/sth) not necessarily based on fact or knowledge
opinionated	adj. holding very strong views which one is not willing to change
opium	n. drug made from poppy seeds, used to relieve pain or to help sb sleep
opponent	 n. ~ (at/in sth) person who is against another person in a fight, a struggle, a game or an argument
opportune	(of time) suitable or favourable for a purpose
opportunism	n. looking for and using opportunities to gain an advantage for oneself, without considering if this is fair or right
opportunist	n. person who acts like this
opportunistic	of or characterized by opportunistic
opportunity	n. ~ ~ (to do sth) favourabletime, occasion or set of circumstances
oppose	express strong disapproval of or disagreement with (sth/sb), esp with the aim of preventing or changing a course of action
opposed	~ to sth strongly against sth
opposing	 [ oppose: ] vt. to fight against, counter, or resist strongly
opposite	~ having a position on the other side (of sb/sth); facing
opposition	~ state or action of opposing (sb/sth); resistance
oppress	rule or treat with continual injustice or cruelty
oppressed	adj. unjustly or cruelly treated
oppression	 n. oppressing or being oppressed
oppressive	unjust; cruel
oppressor	n. person or group that oppresses; cruel or unjust ruler
opprobrious	adj. (of words, etc) showing scorn or reproach; abusive
opprobrium	 n. public disgrace and shame
oppugn	 to call into question; dispute
optic	adj. of or concerned with the eye or the sense of sight
optical	of the sense of sight
optician	person who makes and sells optical instruments, esp contact lenses and glasses
optimism	 n. tendency to expect the best in all things; confidence in success; belief that good will triumph over evil in the end
optimist	 n. person who is always hopeful and expects the best in all things
optimistic	 adj. ~ expecting the best; confident
optimization	 an act, process, or methodology of making something (as a design, system, or decision) as fully perfect, functional, or effective as possible;
optimize	 vt. to take the full advantage
optimum	adj. best or most favourable
option	power or freedom of choosing; choice
optional	 adj. that may be chosen or not, as one wishes; not compulsory
optometrist	one who fits glasses to remedy visual defects
optometry	Measurement of the powers of vision.
opulence	 n. opulently
opulent	having or showing signs of great wealth
opus	musical composition numbered as one of a composer's works (work1 5b) (usu in order of publication)
or	 conj
oracle	(in ancient Greece) holy place where the gods could be asked about the future
oracular	 adj. of or like an oracle; with hidden meaning
oral	not written; spoken
orally	through the spoken word
orange	round thick-skinned juicy edible fruit that is a reddish-yellow colour when ripe
orate	To deliver an elaborate or formal public speech.
oration	n. formal speech made on a public occasion, esp as part of a ceremony
orator	 n. person who makes formal speeches in public
oratorio	 n. musical composition for solo voices, chorus and orchestra,usu with a Biblical theme
oratory	n. small chapel for private prayer or worship
orbit	path followed by a planet, star, moon, etc round another body
orbital	adj. of an orbit
orchard	n. piece of land in which fruit trees are grown
orchestra	n. group of people playing various musical instruments together
orchestration	n.
orchid	plant, usu with flowers of unusual shapes and brilliant colours, having one petal larger than the other two
ordain	make a priest or minister
ordeal	 n. difficult or painful experience
order	way in which people or things are placed or arranged in relation to one another
ordering	any of a number of categories of relations that permit at least some members of their domain to be placed in order. A linear or simple ordering is reflexive, antisymmetric, transitive, and connected, as less than or equal to on the integers.
orderliness	n.
orderly	well-arranged; in good order; tidy
ordinal	adj. showing order or position in a series . > ordinal n (also ,ordinal `number)
ordinance	n. order, rule or law made by a government or an authority
ordinarily	in an ordinary way
ordinary	normal; usual
ordination	 n. ceremony of ordaining (a priest or minister)
ordnance	military supplies and materials
ore	n. rock, earth, mineral, etc from which metal can be obtained
organ	part of an animal body or plant serving a particular purpose
organic	of or affecting an organ or organs of the body
organically	adv: The doctor said there was nothing organically wrong with me. * organically grown tomatoes
organism	(usu small) living being with parts that work together
organization	 the act of organizing or the state of being organized
organize	 to form (parts or elements of something) into a structured whole; coordinate
organized	planned and controlled on a large scale and involving many people
orgy	wild party, usu with a lot of drinking and/or sexual activity
orient	 n. the Orient countries of the (Far) East (eg Japan, China)
oriental	 adj. of or from the Orient
orientation	n. activity of orientating oneself; state of being orientated
orifice	n. outer opening in the body, etc
origin	starting-point; source
original	existing from the beginning; first or earliest
originality	n. state or quality of being original
originally	in an original(
originate	v. ~ in sth; ~ from/with sb have sth/sb as a cause or beginning
originator	 n. person who originates sth
ornament	decoration; adornment
ornamental	 adj. of or for ornament
ornamentation	n. that which ornaments; decoration
ornate	 adj. richly decorated
ornateness	 n.
ornithologist	n. expert in ornithology
ornithology	n. scientific study of birds
orotund	(of the voice) dignified; grand
orphan	 n. person whose parents are dead
orphanage	n. home for children who are orphans
orthodontic	adj. of orthodontics
orthodontics	 n. (branch of dentistry that deals with) preventing and correcting irregularities in the position of the teeth and jaws
orthodontist	 n. specialist in orthodontics
orthodox	generally accepted or approved
orthodoxy	state of being orthodox or holding orthodox beliefs
orthogonal	 Having or determined by right angles.
orthography	(study or system of) spelling
orthopaedic	adj. of or concerning orthopaedics
orthopaedics	 n. (branch of surgery that deals with) correction of bone deformities and diseases
orthopedic	 Relating to the correcting or preventing of deformity
orthopedics	[ orthopaedics: ] the branch of surgery concerned with disorders of the spine and joints and the repair of deformities of these parts
oscillate	move repeatedly and regularly from one position to another and back again
oscillation	action of oscillating or being oscillated
osculate	 To kiss.
osculation	 a caress with the lips
osmosis	gradual passing of a liquid through a porous partition
osseous	adj. of bone; having bones; bony ;
ossify	(cause sth to) become hard like bone; change into bone ;
ostensible	 adj. stated though perhaps not true; apparent
ostensibly	 adv: Ostensibly he was on a business trip, but he spent most of the time on the beach. ,
ostentation	n. exaggerated display (of wealth, knowledge, skill, etc) intended to impress people or make them envious
ostentatious	 adj. showing or liking ostentation
ostracism	n. action of ostracizing; state of being ostracized
ostracize	exclude from public favor; ban
ostrich	very large African bird with a long neck, unable to fly, but fast-running
other	additional to that or those previously mentioned or implied
otherwise	in another or a different way
otherworldly	 existing outside of or not in accordance with nature
otiose	 adj. (of language, ideas, etc) serving no useful purpose; unnecessary
otter	n. small fish-eating river animal with four webbed feet, a flat tail and thick brown fur .
ought	To be under moral obligation to be or do.
ounce	unit of weight, one sixteenth of a pound, equal to
our	of or belonging to us
ours	 possess pron of or belonging to us
ourselves	(reflex ) (used when I and another or others, or I and you, cause and are affected by an action )
oust	 v. ~ sb (fml ) remove sb (from a position, job, etc) sometimes in order to take his place
out	away from or not inside a place
out-and-out	adj. thorough; complete
outbid	 v. offer more money than (another person at an auction, etc); bid higher than
outbreak	 n. sudden appearance or start
outburst	 n. bursting out; explosion
outcast	n, adj ~ (person) driven away from home, friends, society, etc; homeless and friendless (person)
outcome	n. effect or result (of an event, circumstances, etc)
outcry	 n. ~ (about/against sth) strong public protest
outdated	 adj. out of date (by the passing of time); old-fashioned
outdistance	v. move faster than and leave him/it behind
outdo	v. do more or better than (sb)
outdoor	of, used in, done in or existing in the open air
outdoors	 adv. in the open air; outside; out of doors
outer	adj. of or for the outside
outermost	adj. farthest from the inside or centre; most remote
outface	v. make feel uncomfortable or embarrassed by staring at him boldly
outfit	all the equipment or articles needed for a particular purpose; kit
outfox	 v. gain an advantage over (sb) by being more cunning; outwit
outgo	vt. to exceed or outstrip
outgoing	going out; leaving
outgrow	v. grow too big for (esp one's clothes)
outgrowth	naturaldevelopment or result
outing	 n. short pleasure trip; excursion
outlandish	 adj. looking or sounding strange
outlaw	 n. person who has broken the law and is hiding to avoid being caught
outlet	~ way out (for water, steam, etc)
outline	lineshowing the shape or outer edge (of sth)
outlive	v. live longer than
outlook	~ view on which one looks out
outlying	 adj. far from a centre or a city; remote
outmaneuver	to maneuver with better effect than; outwit
outmoded	 adj. no longer fashionable
outnumber	v. be more in number than (sb)
outnumbered	[ outnumber: ] to exceed in numbe
out-of-the-way	 Remotely situated.
outpost	observation point some distance away from the main army
output	quantity of goods, etc produced
outrage	(act of) great violence or cruelty
outrageous	very offensive or immoral; shocking
outre	adj. (esp of behaviour, ideas, tastes, etc) not conventional; very unusual or peculiar; eccentric
outreach	 To reach or go beyond.
outride	To ride faster than.
outrigger	structure projectingover the side of a boat or ship, eg for the rowlocks in a racing boat or to give stability to a canoe
outright	openly and honestly, with nothing held back
outrun	 v. run faster or better than (sb/sth)
outset	 n. at/from the outset (of sth) at/from the beginning (of sth)
outside	outer side or surface
outskirt	 A border region.
outskirts	n. outlying districts (esp of a city or large town); outer areas
outspoken	adj. ~ saying openly exactly what one thinks; frank
outstand	 to be outstanding or excel
outstanding	exceptionally good; excellent
outstretch	 To extend.
outstrip	run faster than (sb in a race) and leave him behind
outward	going out or away from (a place that one is going to return to)
outwards	 (also esp US outward) adv.
outweigh	 v. be greater in weight, value or importance than
outwit	 v. win or defeat (sb) by being cleverer or more cunning than him
oval	 n, adj shaped like an egg
ovation	n. great applause or cheering expressing welcome or approval
oven	enclosed box-like space in which things are cooked or heated
over	outwards and downwards from an upright position
overact	v. act2(2a) (one's part) in an exaggerated way; overplay
overall	adj. including everything; total
overawe	v. cause to feel a great deal of fear and respect
overawed	 [ overawe: ] to subdue, restrain, or overcome by affecting with a feeling of aw
overbalance	v. lose balance and fall over
overbear	 vt. to dominate or overcome
overbearing	adj. forcing others to do what one wants (without caring about their feelings); domineering
overblown	past their best; too fully open
overburden	 [ overburden
 to load with excessive weight, work, etc.
	 to load with excessive weight, work, etc.
overcast	 adj. covered with cloud
overcharge	~ (for sth) charge (sb) too high a price (for sth)
overcoat	 n. long warm coat worn over other clothes (when going outdoors in cold weather)
overcome	succeed in a struggle against (sth); defeat
overcrowd	to fill (a room, vehicle, city, etc.) with more people or things than is desirable
overdo	do, perform or express (sth) too fully or for too long; exaggerate
overdose	 n. too great an amount taken at one time
overdue	adj. not paid, completed, arrived, etc by the due or expected time
overeat	v. eat more than one needs or more than is healthy
overestimate	 v. estimate to be bigger, higher, better, etc than it is
overexpose	 v. expose for too long or in too bright a light
overexposure	 to expose excessively; especially:to expose (as film) to excessive radiation (as light)
overflow	flow over the edges or limits of
overgraze	to graze (land) beyond its capacity to sustain stoc
overhang	 v. hang over or stand out over (sth) like a shelf
overhaul	examine carefully and thoroughly and make any necessary repairs
overhead	raised above the ground; above one's head
overheads	n. regular expenses involved in running a business, eg rent, light, heating, salaries
overhear	 v. hear (sb, a conversation, etc) without the knowledge of the speaker(s); hear by chance
over-industrialized 
	over-industrialized 
overland	 adj. across the land; by land
overlap	partly cover (sth) by extending over its edge
overleap	 To leap beyond.
overload	 vt. to put too large a load on or
overlook	have or give a view of from above
overlord	 n. nobleman on whose land people of lower rank worked
overly	 adv. (before an adj or a v ) too; excessively
overnight	during or for the night
overpass	 n. (Brit also flyover ) bridge that carries a road over a motorway ;
overpower	v. be too strong or powerful for defeat (sb) by greater strength or numbers
overpowering	 adj. too strong; very powerful
overreach	v. ~ oneself fail by trying to achieve more than is possible
override	disregard or set aside (sb's opinions, etc)
overriding	 adj. more important than any other considerations
overrule	 v. decide against by exercising one's higher authority
overrun	spread over and occupy (a place) in great numbers
overseas	 adj. across the sea; foreign
oversee	v. watch over and control (sb/sth); supervise
overseer	 n. person whose job is to take charge of work and see that it is properly done
overshadow	cause to be shaded or to have little light
oversight	n. unintentional failure to notice sth
overstate	v. express or state too strongly; exaggerate
overstatement	action of overstating; exaggeration ;
overstride	 To step beyond.
overt	adj. done or shown openly or publicly; not secret or hidden
overtake	come level with and pass (esp a moving person or vehicle)
overthrow	v. cause the downfall or defeat of (sb/sth); put an end to
overtime	 n. adv after the usual working hours
overtly	adv. (fml )
overtone	 n. something suggested or implied in addition to what is actually stated; hint
overture	~ (fml ) friendly approach, proposalor offer made (to sb) with the aim of starting discussions
overturn	turn over or upside-down; upset
overweening	adj. showing too much self-confidence or conceit
overweight	heavier than is usual or allowed
overwhelm	v. cover (sth/sb) completely by flowing over or pouring down on it/him; submerge suddenly
overwhelming	 adj. too great to resist or overcome; very great
overwhelmingly	 adv: overwhelmingly successful, generous
overwrought	adj. in a state of nervous excitement, anxiety, etc; tense and upset
ovoid	adj. n egg-shaped (object)
owe	~ (sb) for sth; ~ sth (to sb) (for sth) be in debt to (sb) (for goods, etc)
owing	adj. not yet paid
owl	bird of prey that flies at night and feeds on small animals, eg mice, and is traditionally regarded as a symbol of wisdom ,
own	belonging to oneself, itself, ourselves, etc
owner	n. person who owns sth
ownership	n. state of being an owner; possession
ox	fully grown bullock used (esp formerly) for pulling carts, farm machinery, etc or for food
oxide	n. compoundof oxygen and one other substance
oxidize	to undergo or cause to undergo a chemical reaction with oxygen, as in formation of an oxide
oxidized	 [ oxidize: ] to undergo or cause to undergo a chemical reaction with oxygen, as in formation of an oxide
oxygen	 n. chemical element, a gas without colour, taste or smell, present in the air and necessary for all forms of life on earth
oxymoron	 a combination of contradictory or incongruous words
oyster	shellfish some types of which produce pearls inside their shells
P.M.	 (indicating the time period from midday to midnight) post meridiem
pabulum	any substance that can be used as food ; intellectual sustenance
pace	single step in walking or running
pachyderm	n. any of varioustypes of thick-skinned, four-footed animal, eg an elephant or a rhinoceros
pacific	adj. making or loving peace; peaceful ;
pacification	 n. pacifying or being pacified
pacifier	 n. = dummy 3
pacifism	 n. belief that all war is morally wrong and that disputes should be settled by peaceful means
pacifist	 n. person who believes in pacifism
pacify	calm or soothe the anger or distress of (sb)
pack	number of things wrapped or tied together for carrying, esp on the back
package	object or objects wrapped in paper or packed in a box; parcel
packed	 completely filled; full
packet	package) small paper or cardboard container in which goods are packed for selling
packing	process of packing goods
pact	 n. agreement (between people, groups,countries, etc); treaty
pad	thick piece of soft material used to protect sth from rubbing, jarring or blows, to improve the shape or increase the size of sth, or to absorb liquid
padding	soft material used to pad things
paddle	short oar with a broad blade at one end or both ends, used to move a canoe through the water .
paddock	small field where horses are kept or exercised
padre	clergyman in the armed forces
paean	n. (fml) song of praise or triumph
pagan	person who is not a believer in any of the world's chief religions, esp one who is neither a Christian, a Jew nor a Moslem
paganism	 n. beliefs and practices of pagans
page	p) one side of a sheet of paper in a book, magazine, etc
pageant	public entertainmentconsisting of a procession of people in costume, or an outdoor performance of scenes from history
paid	 pt, pp of pay2
pail	 n. bucket
pailful	n. amount a pail contains
pain	physical suffering or discomfort caused by injury or disease
painful	causing or suffering pain
painfully	adv: Her thumb is painfully swollen. * become painfully aware of sth
painkiller	 a medicine used in to relieve pain
painless	 adj. not causing pain or distress
painstaking	adj. done with, requiring or taking great care or trouble
painstakingly	adv.
paint	substance applied to a surface in liquid form to give it colour
painter	person whose job is painting buildings, walls, etc
painting	action or skill of painting sth
pair	two things of the same kind, usu used together
pal	friend
palace	official home of a sovereign, an archbishop or a bishop
palatable	adj. pleasant to taste
palate	roof of the mouth
palatial	 adj. like a palace
palaver	fuss or bother, often with a lot of talking
pale	(of a person, his face, etc) having little colour; having less colour than usual
paleography	the study of ancient forms of writing (and the deciphering of them)
Paleolithic	of or relating to the second period of the stone age (following the eolithic)
paleontology	 study of prehistoric life
palette	n. thin board on which an artist mixes colours when painting, with a hole for the thumb to hold it by
palimpsest	 n. manuscript from which the original writing has been removed in order to create space for new writing
palindrome	nurses run
paling	 n. fence made of pales (pale
palings	[ paling: ] a fence made of pales
palinode	 A retraction.
palisade	strong fence made of pointed wooden stakes or iron poles, esp one used to defend a building ,
pall	 v. ~ become uninterestingor boring by being experienced too often
pallet	 n. large wooden or metal tray or platform for carrying goods, esp one that can be raised using a fork-lift truck
palliate	make(esp a pain or disease) less severe or unpleasant, withoutremoving its cause; alleviate ,
palliation	 n. palliating or being palliated
palliative	that reduces pain without removing its cause
pallid	 adj. pale, esp because of illness
pallor	 n. paleness of the face
palm	inner surface of the hand between the wrist and the fingers
palmy	full of palm trees
palpable	that can be felt or touched
palpitate	beat rapidly
palpitation	act of palpilating
palsy	n. paralysis, esp with trembling of the limbs
palter	 to act insincerely or deceitfully
paltry	very small; unimportant
paly	 Lacking color or brilliancy.
pamper	 v. treat (a person or an animal) with too much kindness or indulgence; spoil
pamphlet	 n. small book with a paper cover, usu containing information on a subject of public interest or expressing a political opinion
pamphleteer	n. person who writes pamphlets
pan	wide flat (usu metal) container, with a handle or handles, used for cooking food in
panacea	n. ~ remedy for all diseases or troubles
panache	n. confident stylish manner
Pan-American	 Including or pertaining to the whole of America, both North and South.
pancreas	 n. gland near the stomach that produces substances which help in the digestion of food
pancreatic	 adj. of or relating to the pancreas
panda	large rare bear-like black and white animal living in the mountains of SW China
pandemic	 n, adj disease occurring over a whole country or the whole world
Pandemonium	n. wild and noisy disorder or confusion
pander	 v. pander to sth/sb (derog ) try to satisfy (a vulgar, weak or immoral desire, or sb having this); gratify sth/sb
pane	 n. single sheet of glass in a window
panegyric	n. speech or piece of writing praising sb/sth
panel	separate, usu rectangular, part of the surface of a door, wall, ceiling, etc, usu raised above or sunk below the surrounding area
pang	 n. sudden sharp feeling of pain
panic	sudden irrational feeling of great fear
panoply	complete or splendid display of sth
panorama	view of a wide area
panoramic	adj. a panoramic view from the top of the tower
pant	breathe with short quick breaths
pantechnicon	 n. large van used for moving furniture from one house to another
pantheism	belief that God is everything and everything is God
pantheist	n. believer in pantheism
pantheistic	adj. of, like or relating to pantheism
pantheon	temple dedicated to all the gods
panther	leopard, esp a black one
pantomime	type of play with music, dancing and clowning, based on a traditional story or fairy-tale and usu performed at Christmas
pantry	small room in a house where food is kept; larder
pants	(Brit) men's underpants; women's or children's knickers
papacy	the Papacy position or authority of the Pope
paper	substance made in thin sheets from wood pulp or rags and used for writing, printing or drawing on, or for wrapping and packing things
papoose	type of bag fixed to a frame, used for carrying a young baby onthe back
papyrus	tall reed-like water-plant with thick fibrous stems used by the Ancient Egyptians to make paper
par	price that is printed on stocks and shares; face value
parable	n. story told to illustrate a moral or spiritual truth
parabola	 n. plane curve formed by cutting a cone on a plane parallel to its side .
parachute	n. device for making people or objects fall slowly and safely when dropped from an aeroplane, consisting of an umbrella-shaped canopy attached to a harness
parade	formal gathering of troops for inspection, a roll-call, etc
paradigm	set of all the different forms of a word
paradigmatic	 of or relating to a grammatical paradigm ; of or relating to a typical example
paradise	heaven
paradox	statement that seems to be absurd or contradictory but is or may be true
paradoxical	adj.
paradoxically	adv.
paragon	n. ~ of sth person who is a perfect example of a quality (used esp in the expression shown)
paragraph	distinct section of a written or printed text, usu consisting of several sentences dealing with a single theme and starting on a new line
parallel	(of two or more lines) having the same distance between each other at every point
parallelism	n. state of being parallel; similarity
paralyse	affect with paralysis
paralysis	n. loss of feeling in or control of a part of the body, caused by a disease of or an injury to the nerves
paralyze	 To deprive of the power to act.
parameter	quantity that does not vary in a particular case but does vary in other cases
paramount	adj. having the greatest importance or significance; supreme
paramountcy	n. (state of) being paramount
paramour	 illicit lover
paranoia	mental illness in which a person is obsessed by mistaken beliefs, esp that he is being badly treated by others or that he is somebody very important
paranoiac	n, adj = paranoid
paranoid	 adj. of, like, suffering from or showing paranoia
paranormal	 adj. unable to be explained scientifically or rationally
parapet	low protective wall along the edge of a balcony, bridge, roof, etc
paraphernalia	n. numerous small articles or personal belongings, esp the equipment needed for a hobby or sport
paraphrase	 n. re-wording of a piece of writing, statement, etc, esp in order to make it easier to understand
parasite	animal or plant (eg mistletoe) that lives on or in another and gets its food from it
parasitic	adjs living as a parasite; like a parasite
parasol	n. light umbrella used to give shade from the sun
paratrooper	n. one of these soldiers
parcel	thing or things wrapped up for carrying or sending by post
parch	make very dry and hot
parched	[ parch: ] to deprive or be deprived of water; dry up
parchment	heavy paper-like material made from the skin of sheep or goats and used for writing on
pardon	~ forgiveness
pare	trim by cutting away the edges
parent	father or mother
parentage	n. descent from parents; origin; ancestry
parental	 adj. of or relating to a parent or parents
parenthesis	n. additional word, phrase or sentence inserted into a passage which would be complete without it, and usu separated from it by brackets, dashes or commas
parenthetic	adjs of, relating to or inserted as a parenthesis
pariah	social outcast
Paris	the capital of France, in the north on the River Seine:
parish	area within a diocese, having its own church and clergyman
parishioner	n. inhabitant of a parish, esp one who attends church regularly
parity	state of being equal; equality
park	public garden or recreation ground in a town
parky	,
parlance	 n. particular way of speaking or use of words; phraseology
parley	 n. (esp formerly) meeting between enemies or opponents to discuss terms for peace, etc
parliament	assembly that makes the laws of a country
parliamentary	of or relating to parliament
parlor	 A room for reception of callers or entertainment of guests.
parlous	adj. full of danger or uncertainty; dangerous; very bad
parochial	of or relating to a church parish
parodist	 n. person who writes parodies
parody	~ (piece of) speech, writing or music that imitates the style of an author, composer, etc in an amusing and often exaggerated way; comic imitation
paronymous	 Derived from the same root or primitive word.
paroxysm	 n. sudden attack or outburst
parquet	n. flooring made of wooden blocks arranged in a pattern
parquetry	inlaid woodwork in geometric forms, usually of contrasting woods, used esp. in flooring
parricide	killing one's father or a close relative
parrot	any of various types of tropical bird with hooked beaks and brightly-coloured feathers, some of which can be trained to imitate human speech .
parry	turn aside or ward off (a blow or an attack) by using one's own weapon or one's hand to block it
parse	describe the grammatical form and function of (a word), giving its part of speech, case1(8), etc
parsimonious	 adj. very careful in spending money or using resources; mean
parsimony	n. excessive carefulness in spending money or using resources; meanness ;
part	~ (of sth) some but not all of a thing or number of things
partial	of or forming a part; not complete
partiality	~ being partial(
partially	not completely; partly
partible	 Separable.
participant	n. ~ person or group of people who participate in sth
participate	v. ~ take part or become involved (in an activity)
participation	n. ~ (action of) participating in sth
particle	very small bit or piece
particular	relating to one person or thing rather than others; individual
particularity	n. quality of being individual or particular(1)
particularize	to state in detail
particularly	 adv. especially
particulars	of or belonging to a single or specific person, thing, category, etc.; specific; special
partisan	enthusiastic and often uncritical supporter of a person, group or cause
partisanship	 n.
partition	action of dividing or state of being divided into parts, esp the division of one country into two or more nations
partly	 adv. to some extent
partner	person who takes part in an activity with another or others, esp one of several owners of a business
partridge	partridges) any of various types of game-bird with brown feathers, plump bodies and short tails .
parturition	n. process of giving birth; childbirth
party	social gathering to which people are invited, esp in order to celebrate sth
parvenu	n. person who has suddenly risen from a low social or economic position to one of wealth or power
pass	success in an examination
pass off	 (of an event) take place and be completed
passage	process of passing
passe	adj. out of date; old-fashioned
passenger	person travelling in a car, bus, train, plane, ship, etc, other than the driver, the pilot or a member of the crew
passer-by	n. person who is going past sb/sth, esp by chance
passible	 Capable of feeling of suffering.
passion	strong feeling, eg of hate, love or anger
passionate	caused by or showing intense sexual love
passionately	 adv. in a passionate(1a) way
passive	not active; submissive
passively	adv.
passivity	[ passive: ] not active or not participating perceptibly in an activity, organization, etc.
passport	official document issued by the government of a particular country, identifying the holder as a citizen of that country and entitling him to travel abroad under its protection
past	gone by in time
paste	moist soft mixture, esp of a powdery substance and a liquid
pastel	type of crayon made from coloured chalk
pasteurization	 the process of heating beverages, such as milk, beer, wine, or cider, or solid foods, such as cheese or crab meat, to destroy harmful or undesirable microorganisms or to limit the rate of fermentation by the application of controlled hea
pasteurize	 heat food in order to kill harmful microorganisms
pastiche	literary, musical or artistic work in the style of another author, composer, etc
pastime	n. thing done to pass the time pleasantly
pastor	 n. minister, esp of a Nonconformist church
pastoral	relatingto or portraying country life, the countryside or shepherds, esp in an idealized way
pastry	mixture of flour, fat and water baked in an oven and used as a base or covering for tarts, pies, etc
pasture	land covered with grass and similar plants, suitable for grazing animals
pasty	of or like paste
pat	at once and without hesitation
patch	piece of material placed over a hole or a damaged or worn place to cover or strengthen it
patchwork	type of needlework in which small pieces of cloth with different designs are sewn together
patent	 adj. ~ obvious; clear; evident
patently	 adv. unmistakably; obviously
paternal	of a father; fatherly
paternalism	n. policy of controlling people in a paternal way by providing them with what they need but giving them no responsibility or freedom of choice
paternity	state of beinga father; fatherhood
path	 n. way or track made for or by people walking
pathetic	causing one to feel pity or sadness
pathological	of or relating to pathology
pathologically	 adv: pathologically jealous, mean, etc
pathology	n. scientific study of diseases of the body
pathos	 n. quality, esp in speech, writing, acting, etc that causes a feeling of pity or sadness
patience	~ ability to accept delay, annoyance or suffering without complaining
patient	adj. ~ having or showing patience
patina	green coating that forms on the surface of old bronze or copper
patio	paved area next to a house where people can sit, eat, etc outdoors ,
patois	 n. dialect spoken by the common people of a region and differing from the standard language of the country
patriarch	male head of a family or tribe
patriarchal	of or like a patriarch
patriarchy	 n. patriarchal(2) system of control or government
patrician	n. member of the aristocracy
patricide	n. (act of) killing one's own father
patrimonial	adj. of or relating to a patrimony
patrimony	n. property inherited from one's father or ancestors
patriot	n. person who loves his country, esp one who is ready to defend it against an enemy
patriotic	adj. having or showing love of one's country
patriotism	 n. love of one's country and readiness to defend it
patrol	 v. go round (a town, an area, etc) to check that all is secure and orderly or to look for wrongdoers, an enemy or people who need help
patron	person who gives money or other support to a person, cause, activity, etc
patronage	support and encouragement given by a patron
patronize	to be kind or helpful to, but in a haughty or snobbish way, as if dealing with an inferior
patronymic	 n, adj derived from the name of one's father or some other male ancestor
patsy	n. person who is easily cheated or fooled
patter	 n. rapid and often glib speech used by a comedian, conjuror or salesman
pattern	arrangement of lines, shapes, colours, etc, esp as a decorative design on clothes, carpets, wallpaper, etc
paucity	n. ~ (fml ) smallness of number or quantity
paunchy	adj. having a paunch
pauper	 n. very poor person
pauperism	n. state of being a pauper
pause	~ temporary stop in action or speech
pave	 to cover (a road, path, etc.) with a firm surface suitable for travel, as with paving stones or concrete
pavement	(US sidewalk) path with a paved surface at the side of a road for people to walk on
pavilion	building next to a sports ground, esp a cricket field, used by players and spectators
paw	foot of an animal with claws or nails
pawky	adj. (Brit dialect ) drily humorous
pawn	one of the eight chess-men of the smallest size and value .
pawnbroker	 n. person licensed to lend money in exchange for articles left with him
pay	money paid for regular work
payee	n. person to whom sth is paid
payment	paying or being paid
pea	climbing plant with long green pods containing edible green seeds that are eaten as a vegetable
peace	state of freedom from war or violence
peaceable	not quarrelsome; wishing to live in peace with others
peaceably	adv: live peaceably with one's neighbours
peaceful	not involving war or violence
peacefully	 adv: die, sleep peacefully
peacefulness	 n.
peach	round juicy fruit with downy yellowish-red skin and a rough stone
peachy	 adj. like a peach in colour or texture
peacock	large male bird with long blue and green tail feathers which can be spread out like a fan
peak	pointed top, esp of a mountain
peaky	having or as if having especially high-pitched spots
pear	sweet juicy yellow or green fruit with a rounded shape that becomes narrower towards the stalk .
pearl	small, hard, round, silvery-white or bluish-grey lustrous mass that forms inside the shells of some oysters and is of great value as a gem
pearly	 adj. of or like a pearl
peasant	farmer owning or renting a (usu small) piece of land which he cultivates himself
pebble	small stone made smooth and round by the action of water, eg in a stream or on the seashore
pebbly	 adj. covered with pebbles
pecan	pinkish-brown smooth nut with an edible kernel
peccadillo	 n. small unimportant offence or sin
peccant	Guilty.
peck	~ (try to) strike (sth) with the beak
peckish	adj. hungry
pectoral	of the chest or breast
peculate	 v. take (money) dishonestly, esp from public funds; embezzle ; ,
peculation	 n. peculating
peculiar	odd or strange
peculiarity	quality of being peculiar
pecuniary	adj. of or concerning money
pedagogics	 The science and art of teaching.
pedagogue	teacher
pedagogy	 n. study or science of ways and methods of teaching
pedal	lever that drives a machine when pressed down by the foot or feet
pedant	person who attaches too much importance to detail or to rules, esp when learning or teaching
pedantic	 adj. of or like a pedant
pedantry	 n. too much emphasis on formal rules or detail
peddle	go from house to house to sell goods; be a pedlar ;
peddler	= pedlar
pedestal	base of a column
pedestrian	 n. person walking in the street
pediatrician	 expert in children's diseases
pediatrics	 The department of medical science that relates to the treatment of diseases of childhood.
pedigree	line of ancestors
pediment	 n. (usu) triangular part above the entrance of a building, first used in the buildings of ancient Greece .
pedlar	 n. person who travels from place to place selling goods at fairs, etc
peek	 v. ~ look quickly and often secretively (at sth)
peel	~ sth (for sb) take the skin off (fruit, etc)
peep	~ look quickly and slyly or cautiously (at sth)
peer	person who is equal to another in rank, status or merit
peerage	the whole body of peers
peerless	 adj. superior to all others; without equal ;
peeve	v. annoy (sb); put (sb) in a bad temper
peevish	adj. easily annoyed (esp by unimportant things); irritable ;
pejorative	 adj. expressing criticismor scorn; derogatory; disparaging
pelagic	,
pelf	 Wealth or riches, especially when dishonestly acquired
pell-mell	in a hurrying, disorderly manner; headlong
pellucid	transparentor translucent; very clear
pelt	 n. skin of an animal, esp with the fur or hair still on it
pen	instrument for writing with ink, consisting of a pointed piece of split metal, a metal ball, etc, fixed into a metal or plastic holder
penal	of, relating to or used for punishment, esp by law
penalize	 impose a penalty on; inflict punishment on
penalty	~ punishment for breaking a law, rule or contract
penance	~ punishment that one imposes on oneself to show that one is sorry for having done wrong
pence	pl of penny
pencel	 a small pennon, originally one carried by a knight's squire
penchant	 n. ~ for sth liking or taste for sth
pencil	instrument for drawing or writing with, consisting of a thin stick of graphite or coloured chalk enclosed in a cylinder of wood or fixed in a metal case
pendant	ornament that hangs from a chain worn round the neck
pendent	adj. hanging from sth
pending	adj. waiting to be decided or settled
pendulous	adj. hanging down loosely so as to swing from side to side
pendulum	weight hung on a cord from a fixed point so that it can swing freely
penetrable	 adj. that can be penetrated
penetrate	~ sth make a way into or through sth
penetrating	having or showing the ability to think and understand quickly and deeply
penetration	penetrating
penicillin	 n. substance obtained from mould fungi, used as an antibiotic drug to prevent or treat infections caused by bacteria
peninsula	n. area of land almost surrounded by water or projecting far into the sea
peninsular	 adj. of or like a peninsula
penitence	n. ~ sorrow or regret for having done sth wrong
penitent	 adj. feeling or showing regret or remorse for having done sth wrong
penitential	adj. of or relatingto penitence or penance
penitentiary	 n. federalor state prison for people who have committed serious crimes
pennant	n. long narrow flag tapering to a point, used on a ship for signalling or as identification .
penny	p) (since decimal coinage was introduced in 1971) British bronze coin worth one hundredth of a pound , 1971
penology	 n. study of crime and its punishment, and the management of prisons
pension	n. sum of money paid regularly by the State to people above a certain age and to widowed or disabled people, or by an employer to a retired employee
pensive	adj. thinking deeply about sth, esp in a sad or serious way
pentad	 The number five.
pentagon	geometric figure with five sides and angles
pentagram	A figure having five points or lobes.
pentahedron	A solid bounded by five plane faces.
pentameter	 n. line of verse with five metrical feet
pentathlon	 n. athletic contest in which each competitor takes part in five events
pentavalent	Quinqeuvalent.
penultimate	adj. next to and before the last one; last but one
penumbra	 n. partly shaded area around the shadow of an opaque object (esp around the total shadow of the moon or earth in an eclipse)
penurious	very poor
penury	 n. extreme poverty
peon	person employedas a messenger
people	persons
pepper	hot-tasting powder made from the dried berries of certain plants and used for flavouring food
peppery	tasting of or likepepper
pepsin	 n. liquid produced in the stomach which helps food to be digested
peptic	 adj. of digestion or the digestive system
per	prep for each (unit of time, length, etc)
per cent	 adj. adv in or for every hundred
perambulate	walk about, through or over (a place)
perceive	 v. become aware of (sb/sth); notice; observe
perceiving	 [ perceive: ] to become aware of (something) through the senses, esp. the sight; recognize or observe
percentage	rate, number or amount in each hundred
perceptibility	 n.
perceptible	that can be observed with the senses
perceptibly	adv: The patient has improved perceptibly
perception	ability to see, hear or understand
perceptive	quick to notice and understand things
perceptual	 adj. of or relating to perception
perch	place where a bird rests, eg a branch
percipience	The act of perceiving.
percipient	noticing or understanding things quickly or clearly; perceptive
percolate	~ (through sth)/~ (through) (of water) pass slowly through (coffee); filter through
percolator	 n. pot for making and serving coffee, in which boiling water is repeatedly forced up a central tube and filtered down through ground coffee
percussion	striking of two (usu hard) objects together
percussionist	n. person who plays percussion instruments
percussive	 adj. of, caused by, or relating to percussion
perdition	everlasting punishment of the wicked after death
peregrinate	to travel or wander about from place to place; voyage
peregrination	travelling
peregrine	n. large black and white bird of prey that can be trained to hunt and catch small birds and animals
peremptory	(esp derog ) (of a person, his manner, etc) insisting on immediate obedience or submission; domineering
perennial	lasting for a long time
perennially	adv.
perfect	having everything needed; complete
perfectible	adj. that can be perfected
perfection	making perfect
perfectionist	person who is not satisfied with anything less than perfection
perfectly	in a perfect way
perfervid	marked by overwrought or exaggerated emotion : excessively fervent
perfidious	 adj. ~ (fml ) treacherous, deceitful or disloyal
perfidy	n. ~ (fml ) acting in a treacherous or disloyal way
perforate	make a hole or holes through
perforation	perforating or being perforated
perforce	 adv. because it is necessary or inevitable
perform	To accomplish.
performance	process or manner of performing
performer	n. person who performs in front of an audience
perfume	fragrant or pleasant smell
perfumery	place where perfumes are made or sold
perfunctorily	adv: check the luggage perfunctorily
perfunctory	adj. a) (of an action) done as a duty or routine, without care or interest
pergola	n. structure of posts for climbing plants, forming an arbour or a covered walk in a garden
perhaps	adv. it may be (that); possibly
perigee	n. point in the orbit of the moon, a planet or a spacecraft at which it is nearest to the earth
peril	serious danger
perilous	 adj. full of risk; dangerous
perimeter	outer edge of a closed geometric shape
period	length or portion of time
periodic	 adj. occurring or appearing at intervals
periodical	 n, adj that is published at regular intervals, eg weekly or monthly ; . periodically adv at (esp regular) intervals ;
periodicity	The habit or characteristic of recurrence at regular intervals.
peripatetic	going from place to place
peripheral	~ of secondary or minor importance (to sth)
periphery	boundary of a surface or an area
periphrasis	n. roundabout way of expressing sth; circumlocution
periphrastic	 adj. of, expressed in or using periphrasis
periscope	n. apparatus with mirrors and lenses arranged in a tube so that the user has a view of the surrounding area above, eg from a submarine when it is under water
perish	be destroyed; die
perishable	 adj. likely to decay or go bad quickly
perishing	extremely cold
peristyle	n. row of columns around a temple, courtyard, etc
perjure	v. ~ oneself tell a lie (esp in a court of law) after one has sworn an oath to tell the truth
perjury	n. action of perjuring oneself
perky	full of energy; lively
permanence	 n. state of continuing or remaining for a long time
permanent	adj. lasting or expected to last for a long time or for ever
permanently	adv.
permeability	 n.
permeable	adj. that can be permeated by fluids or gas; porous ;
permeate	 v. ~ sth (fml ) enter sth and spread to every part
permissible	adj. that is or may be allowed
permission	 n. ~ act of allowing sb to do sth; consent
permissive	 adj. allowing great freedomof behaviour, esp to children or in sexual matters
permissiveness	 n. being permissive in outlook or behaviour
permit	give permission for (sth); allow
permitted	[ permit: ] vt. to grant permission to do something
permutation	(esp mathematics ) variation in the order of a set of things
permute	v. vary the order or arrangement of
pernicious	 adj. ~ (to sb/sth) having a very harmful or destructive effect (on sb/sth)
peroration	last part of a speech; summing up
peroxide	any of several compounds of oxygen with another element, containing the maximum proportion of oxygen
perpendicular	~ at an angle of 90 (to another line or surface)
perpetrate	 v. commit (a crime, etc)
perpetrator	n. person who commits a crime or does sth considered outrageous
perpetual	continuing indefinitely; permanent
perpetuate	 v. cause to continue
perpetuation	 n.
perpetuity	 n. in perpetuity (fml ) for ever; permanently
perplex	v. make feel puzzled or confused; bewilder
perplexed	adj. puzzled or confused
perplexity	state of being perplexed; bewilderment
perquisite	perk) money or goods given or regarded as a right in addition to one's pay
persecute	to come to mind continually; obsess:
persecution	n. persecuting or being persecuted
persecutor	 n. person who persecutes others
perseverance	 n. continued steady effort to achieve an aim; steadfastness
persevere	v. ~ ~ (with sb) (usu approv ) continue trying to do sth, esp in spite of difficulty
persevering	adj. showing perseverance
persiflage	 n. light good-humoured teasing; banter ;
persist	~ continue to do sth, esp in an obstinate and determined way and in spite of opposition, argument or failure
persistence	n. being persistent
persistency	[ persistence: ] the quality of persisting; tenacity
persistent	refusing to give up
persnickety	used colloquially of one who is overly conceited or arrogant ; characterized by excessive precision and attention to trivial details
person	 n. human being as an individual with distinct characteristics
personable	 adj. having a pleasant appearance or manner
personage	n. person, esp an important or distinguished one
personal	of or belonging to a particular person rather than a group or an organization
personalities	the sum total of all the behavioural and mental characteristics by means of which an individual is recognized as being unique
personality	characteristics and qualities of a person seen as a whole
personalize	to endow with personal or individual qualities or characteristics
personification	treating sth that is without life as a human being or representing it in human form
personify	treat (sth) as if it were a human being
personnel	people employed in one of the armed forces, a firm or a public office; staff
perspective	art of drawing solid objects on a flat surface so as to give the right impression of their height, width, depth and position in relation to each other
perspicacious	adj. having or showing great insight or judgement; discerning
perspicacity	 quick judging and understanding
perspicuity	plain to the understanding especially because of clarity and precision of presentation
perspicuous	adj. expressed clearly
perspiration	 n. moisture given off by the body; sweat
perspire	 v. give off moisture through the skin; sweat
persuadable	capable of influencing to action by entreaty, statement, or anything that moves the feelings.
persuade	~ sb cause sb to do sth by arguing or reasoning with him
persuasion	persuading or being persuaded
persuasive	 adj. able to persuade; convincing
persuasively	 adv.
persuasiveness	 n.
pert	not showing respect; cheeky
pertain	be connected with or relevant to sth
pertinacious	 adj. holding firmly to an opinion or a course of action; determined
pertinent	adj. ~ (fml ) relevant (to sth); to the point
perturb	v. make (sb) very worried; disturb
perturbation	 n. state of being perturbed; anxiety ;
perusal	n. reading carefully
peruse	read (sth), esp carefully or thoroughly
pervade	v. spread to and be perceived in every part of
pervasion	n. pervading or being pervaded
pervasive	adj. present and perceived everywhere; pervading
perverse	(of a person) deliberately continuing to behave in a way that is wrong, unreasonable or unacceptable
perversion	changing sth from right to wrong; perverting
perversity	 stubborn maintenance of a wrong cause
pervert	turn away from its proper nature or use
pervious	 penetrable
pesky	adj. (US infml ) causing trouble; annoying
pessimism	tendency to be gloomy and believe that the worst will happen
pessimist	n. person who expects the worst to happen
pessimistic	adj. ~ influenced by or showing pessimism
pest	annoying person or thing
pester	 v. ~ sb ~ sb (with sth) annoy or disturb sb, esp with frequent requests
pesticide	n. chemical substance used to kill pests, esp insects
pestilence	 n. (any of various types of) deadly infectious disease that spreads quickly through large numbers of people, esp bubonic plague
pestilent	of or like a pestilence
pestilential	 causing plague; baneful
pestle	 n. heavy round-ended tool used for crushing and grinding things to powder, esp in a special bowl
pet	tame animal or bird kept as a companion and treated with care and affection
petal	n. any of the delicate, coloured, leaf-like divisions of a flower
petalled	 adj. having petals
peter	v. peter out decrease or fade gradually before coming to an end
petition	formal written request, esp one signed by many people appealing to sb in authority
petitioner	 one praying humbly for something
petrel	 n. any of several types of black and white sea-bird that fly far from land
petrifaction	 n. petrifying or being petrified
petrify	take away power to feel through terror; turn to stone
petrography	the description and systematic classification of rocks
petrol	 n. inflammable liquid obtained from petroleum by arefining process and used as a fuel in internal-combustionengines
petroleum	n. mineral oil that forms underground and is obtained from wells sunk into the ground, from which petrol, paraffin, diesel oil, etc are obtained by processing
petrologist	n. person who specializesin petrology
petrology	n. scientific study of rocks
pettish	adj. (of a person) childishly bad-tempered or impatient, esp about unimportant things ,
petty	small or trivial; unimportant
petulance	the quality or state of being petulant:PEEVISHNESS
petulant	 adj. unreasonably impatient or irritable
phalanx	n. (in ancient Greece) close formation, esp of infantry ready for battle
phantasm	thing seen in the imagination; illusion ;
phantasmal	 adj. of or like a phantasm
phantom	(also phantasm) ghostly image or figure; ghost
pharisaic	excessively or hypocritically pious
pharisaical	pertaining to the Pharisees who paid scrupulous attention to tradition; hypocritical
pharisee	a member of an ancient Jewish sect that was opposed to the Sadducees, teaching strict observance of Jewish tradition as interpreted rabbinically and believing in life after death and in the coming of the Messiah
pharmaceutical	 adj. of or connected with the making and distribution of drugs and medicines
pharmacist	 n. person who has been trained to prepare medicines; pharmaceutical chemist
pharmacological	adj. of or concerning pharmacology
pharmacologist	 n. person who specializes in pharmacology
pharmacology	 n. scientific study of drugs and their use in medicine
pharmacopoeia	n. book containing a list of medicinal drugs and directions for their use, esp one officially published for use in a particular country
pharmacy	preparation and giving out of medicines and drugs
phase	stage in a process of change or development
phenomena	observable facts; subjects of scientific investigation
phenomenal	very remarkable; extraordinary
phenomenally	 adv. to an amazing degree
phenomenology	the movement founded by Husserl that concentrates on the detailed description of conscious experience, without recourse to explanation, metaphysical assumptions, and traditional philosophical questions
phenomenon	fact or occurrence, esp in nature or society, that can be perceived by the senses
phial	n. small glass container, esp one for liquid medicine or perfume
philander	v. ~ (usu derog ) (of a man) amuse oneself by flirting with women
philanderer	n. man who does this
philanthropic	adj. of or inspired by philanthropy
philanthropist	 n. person who helps others, esp through charitable work or donations of money
philanthropy	 n. concern for the welfare of mankind; benevolence ;
philatelist	n. person who collects postage stamps
philately	n. collecting and studying postage stamps
philharmonic	 adj. devoted to or loving music
Philistine	 n. person who has no interest in or understanding of the arts, or is hostile to them; uncultured person
philological	 adj. of or concerning philology
philologist	n. expert in or student of philology
philology	n. science or studyof the development of language or of a particular language
philosopher	person who studies or teaches philosophy
philosophical	of or according to philosophy
philosophically	adv: He accepted the verdict philosophically
philosophize	 To seek ultimate causes and principles.
philosophy	search for knowledge and understanding of the nature and meaning of the universe and of human life
phlegmatic	 adj. calm and even-tempered; showing the quality of phlegm
phlegmatically	 adv.
phobia	 n. extreme or abnormal dislike or fear of sth; aversion
phoenix	n. mythical bird of the Arabian desert, said to live for several hundred years before burning itself and then rising born again from its ashes ,
phone	telephone
phonetic	of or concerning the sounds of human speech
phoney	 adj. (infml derog , ) (of a person) pretending or claiming to be what one is not
phonic	of or concerning sound
phonogram	A graphic character symbolizing an articulate sound.
phonologist	n. expert in or student of phonology
phonology	study of the system of speech sounds, esp in a particular language
phony	fraudulent; having a misleading appearance ; a person who professes beliefs and opinions that they do not hold
phosphorescence	n. giving out of light without heat or with so little heat that it cannot be felt
photo	n. (infml ) = photograph
photoconductive	[ photoconductivity: ] adj. "photocon'ductor nou
photoelectric	adj. of or using the electrical effects produced by light
photograph	picture formed by means of the chemical action of light on a specially prepared surface, eg film or a glass plate, and then transferred to specially prepared paper
photographer	 a person who takes photographs, either as a hobby or a professio
photographic	of, used in or produced byphotography
photography	n. art or process of taking photographs
photolithography n. process of transferring an image onto a metal plate by a photographic method, and printing from it
	photolithography n. process of transferring an image onto a metal plate by a photographic method, and printing from it
photometer	 Any instrument for measuring the intensity of light or comparing the intensity of two lights.
photometry	 The art of measuring the intensity of light.
photorespiration Oxidation of carbohydrates in plants with the release of carbon dioxide during photosynthesis
	photorespiration Oxidation of carbohydrates in plants with the release of carbon dioxide during photosynthesis
photosphere	adjectiv
photosynthesis	 n. process by which green plants convert carbon dioxide and water into food using the energy in sunlight
phrase	(grammar) group of words without a verb, esp one that forms part of a sentence
phrasing	 the way in which something is expressed, esp. in writing; wording
phylum	 n. (biology ) major division in the animal or plant kingdom
physic	 [ Culver's: ] a tall North American scrophulariaceous plant, Veronicastrum virginicum, having spikes of small white or purple flowers
physical	of or concerning material things
physically	 adv. bodily
physician	n. doctor, esp one specializing in areas of treatment other than surgery
physicist	n. expert in or student of physics
physics	n. properties of matter and energy (eg heat, light, sound, magnetism, gravity) and the relationship between them
physiognomy	features of a person's face
physiography	 Description of nature.
physiological	adj. of or concerning physiology
physiologically	[ physiological: ] of or relating to physiology
physiologist	 n. expert in or student of physiology
physiology	 n. scientific study of the normal functions of living things
physique	 n. general appearance and size of a person's body, esp of the muscles
pi	p
piano	p) soft(ly)
piazza	 n. public square or marketplace, esp in an Italian town; plaza ,
picaresque	 adj. dealing with the adventures of (often likeable) rogues and vagabonds
picayune	 Of small value.
piccolo	n. small musical instrument like the flute but producing notes an octave higher than those of the flute .
pick	selecting; choice
pickax	 [ pickaxe: ] a large pick or mattock
picket	worker or group of workers stationed outside the entrance to a place of work during a strike to try to persuade others not to enter
pickle	food (esp vegetables) preserved in vinegar or salt water
picnic	(esp Brit) meal eaten out of doors, esp as part of a pleasure trip
pictograph	 a picture or symbol standing for a word or group of words, as in written Chinese
pictorial	adj. represented in a picture or pictures
picture	painting, drawing, sketch, etc, esp as a work of art
piddle	 v. urinate
piddling	 adj. unimportant; trivial
pie	(Brit) meat or fruit encased in pastry and baked in a (usu deep) dish
piebald	adj. covered with irregularly-shaped patches of two colours, usu black and white ,
piece	any of the parts of which sth is made
piecemeal	adv. piece by piece; a part at a time
pied	 adj. having mixed colours, esp black and white
pier	structure of wood, iron, etc built out into the sea, a lake, etc so that boats can stop and take on or put down passengers or goods
pierce	(of sharp-pointed instruments) go into or through (sth)
piercing	 adj. (of voices, sounds, etc) shrill; penetrating
piety	n. devotion to God and respect for religious principles; being pious
pig	domestic or wild animal with short legs, cloven hooves and a broad blunt snout
pigeon	any of several types of wild or tame bird of the dove family
pigment	colouring matter used for making dyes, paint, etc
pigsty	building in which pigs are kept .
pile	 n. heavy column of wood, metal or concrete placed upright in the ground or the sea-bed as a foundation for a building, support for a bridge, etc
pilfer	 v. ~ (from sb/sth) steal (sth, esp of small value or in small quantities)
pilferage	n. action of pilfering
pilgrim	n. person who travels to a holy place as an act of religious devotion
pilgrimage	journey made as a pilgrim
pill	small ball or flat round piece of medicine made to be swallowed whole
pillage	n. (esp formerly) stealing or damaging of property, esp by soldiers in war ,
pillar	upright column of stone, wood, metal, etc used as a support or an ornament, a monument, etc
pillory	n. wooden framework with holes for the head and hands, into which wrongdoers were locked in former times, so that they could be publicly ridiculed .
pillow	 n. cushion used to support the head, esp in bed
pilot	person who operates the controls of an aircraft
pin	short thin piece of stiff wire with a sharp point at one end and a round head at the other, used for fastening together pieces of cloth, paper, etc
pincer	either of the pair of curved claws of certain types of shellfish, eg lobsters,crabs, etc
pincers	a gripping tool consisting of two hinged arms with handles at one end and, at the other, curved bevelled jaws that close on the workpiece: used esp. for extracting nails
pinch	take or hold (sth) in a tight grip between the thumb and finger
pine	 n. (also `pine tree) any of several types of evergreen tree that bear cones and have needle-shaped leaves growing in clusters
pineapple	n. large juicy tropical fruit with sweet yellow flesh and a prickly skin
pinhead	the head of a pin
pinion	outer segment of a bird's wing
pink	of a pale red colour
pinkie	 n. the smallest finger of the human hand; the little finger
pinnace	n. small motor boat carried on a ship for taking people ashore, loading goods, etc ,
pinnacle	small pointed ornament built on to a roof or buttress
pinpoint	 n. sharp end of a pin
pint	(Brit) unit of measure for liquids and some dry goods, --- of a gallon (equal to 0.568 of a litre) , ---, 0.568
pioneer	person who is among the first to go into an area or country to settle or work there
pious	having or showing a deep devotion to religion
piousness	n.
pipe	tube through which liquids or gases can flow
pipeline	series of connected pipes, usu underground,for conveying oil, gas, etc to a distant place
piquancy	 n. quality or state of being piquant
piquant	having a pleasantly sharp taste
pique	hurt the pride or self-respect of (sb); offend
piracy	 n. robbery by pirates (pirate 1a)
pirate	(esp formerly) person on a ship who attacks and robs other ships at sea
piratical	adj. of or in the manner of a pirate
pirouette	n. rapid turn or spin made by a ballet-dancer while balanced on the point of the toe or the ball of the foot
piscatorial	of or concerning fishing or fishermen
pistol	type of small gun, held and fired with one hand
piston	round plate or short cylinder,usu made of metal or wood, that fits closely inside another cylinder or tube and moves up and down or backwards and forwards inside it
pit	large hollow or opening in the ground
pitch	black substance made from coal tar, turpentine or petroleum which is sticky and semi-liquid when hot, and hard when cold, and is used to fill in cracks or spaces, eg between the planks of a floor or of a ship's deck, to make roofs waterproof, etc
pitcher	n. (esp Brit) large (usu earthenware) container for liquids, with one or two handles and a lip for pouring ,
piteous	adj. arousing or deservingpity
pitfall	unsuspected danger or difficulty
pith	soft spongy substance that fills the stems of certain plants, eg reeds ,
pithily	adv. in a pithymanner
pithiness	n. state of being pithy
pithy	concise and full of meaning; terse
pitiable	deserving or arousing pity
pitiful	arousing pity
pitifully	in a pitifulmanner
pitiless	showing no pity or mercy; cruel
pittance	 n. very small or insufficient amount of money paid or received as wages or an allowance
pity	~ feeling of sorrow caused by the suffering, troubles, etc of others
pivot	central point, pin or shaft on which sth turns
pivotal	of or forming a pivot
pixel	The smallest image-forming unit of a video display
placate	v. make less angry; soothe or pacify
placatory	adj. designed to placate or having this effect
place	particular area or position in space occupied by sb/sth
placebo	(medical ) harmless substance given as if it were medicine to calm a patient who mistakenly believes he is ill
placid	 adj. calm and peaceful; undisturbed
placidity	n.
placidly	 adv: cows placidly chewing grass
plagiarism	 n. action of plagiarizing
plagiarist	 n. person who plagiarizes
plagiarize	 to steal and pass off (the ideas or words of another) as one's own:use (another's production) without crediting the source
plague	the plague =bubonic plague (bubonic)
plain	easy to see, hear or understand; clear
plainness	n.
plaintiff	n. person who brings a legal action against sb
plaintive	adj. sounding sad; sorrowful
plait	v. weave or twist (three or more lengths of hair, straw, etc) under and over one another to make one rope-like length
plan	~ ~ (to do sth) arrangement for doing or using sth, considered or worked out in advance
plane	(geometry ) surfacesuch that a straight line joining any two points in it touches it at all points
planet	 n. any of the bodies in space that move around a star and are illuminated by it
planetary	adj. of orlike a planet or planets
plangent	(of sounds) throbbing loudly; reverberating
planisphere	A polar projection of the heavens on a chart.
plank	long flat piece of sawn timber, 50-150mm thick and at least
plankton	 n. any of the forms of plant and animal life that drift in or float on the water of seas, rivers, lakes, etc
planner	a person who makes plans, esp. for the development of a town, building, etc.
plant	living organism that is not an animal, which grows in the earth and usu has a stem, leaves and roots
plantation	large piece of land, esp in a tropical country, where tea, cotton, sugar, tobacco, etc are grown
plaque	 n. flat piece of stone, metal or porcelain fixed on a wall as an ornament or a memorial
plaster	soft mixture of lime, sand, water, etc that becomes hard when dry and is used for making a smooth surface on walls and ceilings
plastered	adj. drunk
plasterer	n. person whose job is to put plaster on walls and ceilings
plastering	 a coating or layer of plaste
plastic	any of several chemically produced substances that can be formed into shapes when heated or made into thin threads and used in textiles
plasticity	 n. state or quality of being able to be moulded or shaped
plate	(often in compounds ) shallow (usu round) dish made usu of earthenware or china, from which food is served or eaten
plateau	large area of fairly level land high above sea-level
plateful	 n. amount that a plate1holds
platform	level surface raised above the surrounding ground or floor, esp one from which public speakers, performers, etc can be seen by their audience
platitude	n. commonplace remark or statement, esp when it is said as if it were new or interesting
platitudinous	adj. commonplace or banal
platonic	Platonic of or concerning the Greek philosopher Plato or his teachings
platypus	 n. (also ,duck-billed `platypus) small Australian furred animalwith a duck-like beak, webbed feet and a flat tail, that lays eggs but gives milk to its young
plaudit	n. (fml ) applause, praise or some other sign of approval
plausibility	 n. state of being plausible
plausible	seeming to be right or reasonable; believable
plausibly	adv: The case was presented very plausibly. * He argued very plausibly for its acceptance
play	activity done for amusement, esp by children; recreation
playbill	 n. poster announcing the performance of a play1
player	person who plays a game
playful	fond of playing; full of fun
playground	 n. area of land where children play, eg as part of a school ,
playoff	A final game or series of games played to break a tie
playwright	 n. person who writes plays; dramatist
plaza	open square or market-place
plea	~ (for sth) earnest request; appeal
plead	~ (with sb) (for sth) make repeated urgent requests (to sb) (for sth)
pleading	 [ plead: ] to appeal earnestly or humbly
pleadingly	 adv. in a begging or an imploring manner
pleasant	 adj. ~ (to sth) giving pleasure to the mind, feelings or senses; enjoyable
pleasantly	* We were pleasantly surprised at the profit we made
pleasantness	 n.
please	be agreeable to make (sb) happy
pleasing	 adj. ~ giving pleasure (to sb/sth); pleasant
pleasurable	adj. givingpleasure; enjoyable
pleasure	state or feeling of being happy or satisfied
pleat	n. pressed or stitched fold made in a piece of cloth
plebeian	of the lower social classes
plebiscite	 n. (decision made by a) direct vote by all qualified citizens on an important political matter
pledge	solemn promise; vow
pledgee	The person to whom anything is pledged.
plenary	attended by all who have the right to attend
plenipotentiary	n. person with full powers to act on behalf of his government (esp in a foreign country)
plenitude	a full supply
plenteous	adj. plentiful
plentiful	adj. in large quantities ornumbers; abundant
plentifully	adv: The visitors were plentifully supplied with food and drink
plenty	number or amount that is sufficient for sb or more than sb needs
pleonasm	 n. use of more words than are necessary to express the meaning
pleonastic	 adj.
plethora	 n. quantity greater than what is needed; over-abundance
pliable	easily bent, shaped or twisted; flexible
pliant	bending easily; supple
pliers	 n. tool with long jaws which have flat surfaces that can be brought together for holding, bending, twisting or cutting wire, etc
plight	 n. serious and difficult situation or condition
plinth	 n. square block or slab on which a column or statue stands
plod	~ (along/on) walk with heavy steps or with difficulty; trudge
plodding	 working laboriously and monotonously:DRUDGE
plot	 n. small marked or measured piece of land, esp for a special purpose
plough	implement with a curved blade, used for digging furrows in the soil, esp before seeds are planted, pulled by animals or by a tractor
plow	 [ plough: ] an agricultural implement with sharp blades, attached to a horse, tractor, etc., for cutting or turning over the earth
ploy	 n. words or actions, eg in a game, intended to win an advantage over one's opponent
pluck	~ sth gather or remove sth by pulling; pick sth
plucky	 adj. having or showing pluck; brave ;
plug	piece of metal, rubber or plastic that fits tightly into a hole (eg in a barrel, wash-basin, bath, etc)
plum	soft round smooth-skinned fruit with sweet flesh and a flattish pointed stone
plumage	n. feathers covering a bird's body
plumb	piece of lead that is tied to a cord and used to find the depth of water or test whether a wall, etc is vertical ,
plumber	n. person whose job is to fit and repair water-pipes, water-tanks, cisterns, etc in buildings
plumbing	system of water-pipes, water-tanks, cisterns, etc in a building
plume	n. feather, esp a large one used as a decoration
plummet	plumb-line
plump	adj. (esp of an animal, a person, parts of the body) having a full rounded shape; fleshy
plumule	embryo; quill-coverts
plunder	~ (from sth) steal (goods) from a place, esp during a time of war or civil disorder; pillage
plunderer	n. person who plunders
plunge	~ into sth; ~ (sth) in (cause sth to) fall into sth suddenly and with force
pluperfect	 adj. (grammar) (of the form of the verb phrase) expressing an action completed before a particular pointin the past
plural	 n. form of a noun or verb which refers to more than one person or thing
pluralism	existence in one society of a number of groups that belong to different races or have different political or religious beliefs
pluralist	n. supporter of pluralism
plurality	state of being plural
plus	 prep with the addition of
plush	n. type of silk or cotton cloth with a surface like velvet
plutocracy	government by a rich and powerful class
plutocrat	n. person who is powerful because of his wealth
plutocratic	adj. of plutocracy
ply	layer of wood or thickness of cloth
pneumatic	adj. filled with air
pneumonia	n. serious illness with inflammation of one or both lungs, causing difficulty in breathing
poach	v. cook (fish, fruit, etc) by simmering it gently in a small amount of liquid
pocket	small bag sewn into or onto a garment and forming part of it, for carrying things in
pocketful	n. amount a pocket holds
pod	long seed-case of various plants, esp peas and beans
podgy	adj. (infml usu derog , ) (of people or parts of the body) short and fat
podiatrist	 n. = chiropodist
podiatry	 n. = chiropody (chiropodist)
podium	 n. small platform for the conductor of an orchestra, a lecturer, etc to stand on
poem	 n. piece of creative writing inverse, esp one expressing deep feelings or noble thoughts in beautiful language, written with the intention of communicating an experience
poesy	Poetry.
poet	 n. writer of poems
poetaster	An inferior poet.
poetic	like or suggesting poetry, esp in being graceful and aesthetically leasing
poetics	The rules and principles of poetry.
poetry	poems collectively or in general
pogrom	 n. organized persecution or killing of a particular group or class of people, esp because of their race or religion
poignancy	n. state or quality of being poignant
poignant	 adj. affecting one's feelings deeply, making one sad, full of pity, etc
point	sharp or tapered end of sth; tip
pointer	long thin piece of metal, plastic, etc which moves to indicate figures, positions, etc on a dial, scale, etc
pointless	adj. with little or no sense, aim or purpose
poise	v. be or keep balanced or suspended
poised	~ in a state of balance, stillness
poison	substance causing death or harm if absorbed by a living thing
poisonous	using poison as a means of attacking enemies or prey
poke	~ sb/sth (with sth) push sb/sth sharply (with a stick, one's finger, etc); jab sb/sth
poky	 adj. (infml derog , ) (of a place, house, flat, etc) small; limited in space
polar	of or near the North or South Pole
polarity	possession or location of negative and positive poles
polarization	 the phenomenon in which waves of light or other radiation are restricted in direction of vibration ; the condition of having or giving polarity
polarize	 to break up into opposing factions or groupings
pole	 n. native or inhabitant of Poland
polemic	~ (against/in favour of sth/sb) speech, piece of writing, etc containing very forceful arguments (against or for sth/sb)
polemical	of polemics
polemicist	 n. person skilled in polemics
police	 n. police (members of an) official organization whose job is to keep public order, prevent and solve crime, etc
policeman	n. male member of the police force
policewoman	PW) female member of the police force
policy	 n. ~ plan of action, statement of ideals, etc proposed or adopted by a government, political party, business, etc
polish	 adj. of Poland or the Poles
polished	shiny from polishing
polite	having or showing that one has good manners and consideration for other people
politeness	 n. quality of being polite
politic	adj. (of actions) well judged; prudent
political	of the State; of government; of public affairs in general
politically	adv. with regard to politics
politician	person actively concerned with politics
politicize	 vt. to render political in tone, interest, or awareness
politics	political affairs or life
polity	form or process of government
poll	voting at an election; counting of votes
pollen	 n. fine powder formed in flowers, which fertilizes other flowers when carried to them by the wind, insects, etc
pollinate	v. make fertile with pollen
pollination	n.
pollster	 n. person who conducts public-opinion polls
pollutant	n. substance that pollutes, eg exhaust fumes from motor vehicles
pollute	make sth dirty or impure, esp by adding harmful or unpleasant substances
pollution	n. polluting or being polluted
Pollyanna	A person regarded as being foolishly or blindly optimistic
polo	 n. game in which players onhorseback try to hit the ball into a goal using long-handledhammers
poltroon	 coward
polyandrous	of or practising polyandry
polyandry	n. custom of having more than one husband at the same time
polygamist	 man who practices this
polygamy	 n. custom of having more than one wife at the same time
polyglot	 adj. knowing, using or written in many languages
polygon	n. figure with many (usu five or more) straight sides
polyhedron	 n. solid figure with many (usu seven or more) faces
polymath	 n. person who knows a great deal about many different subjects
polymer	n. natural or artificial compound made up of large molecules which are themselves made from combinations of small simple molecules
polysyllable	 n. word of several syllables
polytechnic	n. college for advanced full-time and part-time education, esp in scientific and technical subjects
polytheism	 n. belief in or worship of more than one god
pommel	rounded part of a saddle which sticks up at the front
pomp	splendid display or magnificence, esp at a public event
pomposity	n. being pompous
pompous	adj. feeling, or showing that one feels, that one is much more important than other people
poncho	 n. type of cloak made from a large piece of cloth with a slit in the middle for the head
pond	 n. small area of still water, esp one used or made as a drinking place for cattle or as an ornamental garden pool
ponder	 v. ~ think about (sth) carefully and for a long time, esp in trying to reach a decision; consider
ponderable	 significant enough to be worth considering:APPRECIABLE
ponderous	slow and awkward because of great weight
poniard	a dagger with a slender blade ; stab with a poniard
pontiff	bishop; chief priest; high priest ;
pontifical	of the Pope
pontificate	n. office of a pontiff, esp of the Pope; period of this ;
pony	small type of horse
ponytail	 a hairstyle in which the hair is pulled tightly into a band or ribbon at the back of the head into a loose hanging fal
pool	small area of still water, esp one that has formed naturally
poor	having very little money with which to buy one's basic needs
pop	short sharp explosive sound
pope	 n. head of the Roman Catholic Church who is also the Bishop of Rome
populace	 n. (fml ) the general public; ordinary people
popular	liked, admired or enjoyed by many people
popularity	 n. quality or state of being liked or admired by many people
populate	 v. live in (an area) and form its population
population	people who live in an area, a city, a country, etc
populous	 adj. having a large population; densely populated
porcelain	n. hard white translucent material made from china clay, used for making cups, plates, ornaments, etc
porch	covered entrance to a building, esp a church or house .
porcine	adj. of or like a pig
porcupine	n. animal related to the squirrel, with a body and tail covered with long spines which it can stick out to protect itself when attacked
pore	 n. any of the tiny openings in the surface of the skin or of a leaf, through which moisture can pass
pork	 n. flesh of a pig eaten as food
porosity	 the state or condition of being porous
porous	allowing liquid or air to pass through, esp slowly
porphyry	,
porpoise	 n. sea mammal with a blunt rounded snout, similar to a dolphin or small whale
porridge	soft food made by boiling a cereal in water or milk
port	place where ships load and unload cargo or shelter from storms; harbour
portable	 adj. that can be carried; not fixed permanently in place
portend	v. be a sign or warning of (sth in the future); foreshadow
portent	n. ~ (fml ) sign or warning of a future (often unpleasant) event; omen
portentous	of or like a portent; ominous
porter	person whose job is carrying people's luggage and other loads, eg in railway stations, airports, hotels, markets, etc
portfolio	flat case (often made of leather) for carrying loose papers, documents, drawings, etc ,
portico	n. roof supported by columns, esp one forming an entrance to a large building
portion	part or share into which sth is divided
portly	 adj. (esp of an older person) having a stout body; fat
portrait	painted picture, drawing or photograph of a person or an animal
portraiture	n. portraits (portrait 1)
portray	make a picture of sb
portrayal	action of portraying
Portuguese	 the official language of Portugal, its overseas territories, and Brazil: the native language of approximately 110 million people. It belongs to the Romance group of the Indo-European family and is derived from the Galician dialect of Vulgar Latin
pose	~ (for sb) sit or stand in a particular position in order to be painted, drawn or photographed
poser	awkward or difficult question or problem
poseur	 n. (derog) person who behaves in an unnatural affected way in order to impress others
posit	v. suggest or assume (sth) as a fact; postulate ;
position	place where sb/sth is
positive	with no possibility of doubt; clear and definite
positively	 adv. (infml ) extremely; absolutely
positiveness	 n.
positivism	 n. system of philosophy based on things that can be seen or proved rather than on speculation
positivist	 n. person who studies or teaches positivism
positivistic	 [ positivism: ] a strong form of empiricism, esp. as established in the philosophical system of Auguste Comte
posse	n. group of people who can be summoned by an officer of the law, eg a sheriff, to find a criminal, maintain order, etc
possess	have (sth) as one's belongings; own
possessed	owning or having
possession	state of possessing; ownership
possessive	~ (with sth/sb) showing a desire to own things and an unwillingness to share what one owns
possibility	~ ~ (that...) state of being possible; likelihood
possible	that can be done
possibly	perhaps
post	piece of metal or wood set upright in the ground to support sth, mark a position, etc
postage	n. amount charged or paid for carrying letters, etc by post
postal	 adj. of the post3(1b)
postcard	 n. card for sending messages by post without an envelope and often with a picture or photograph onone side
postdate	 To make the date of any writing later than the real date.
poster	 n. large placard displayed in a public place
posterior	~ (to sth) later (than sth) in time or in a series
posterity	following or future generations
postgraduate	 adj. (of studies, etc) done after taking a first degree
posthumous	 adj. happening or given after death
postman	(pl -men) n person employed to collect and deliver letters, etc
postmodern	 adj. (in the arts, architecture, etc.) characteristic of a style and school of thought that rejects the dogma and practices of any form of modernism
postmortem	 occurring after death
postnatal	adj. occurring in the period after childbirth
postpone	~ sth arrange sth at a later time; defer sth
postponement	 n. act of postponing or delaying
postprandial	 adj. happening immediately after a meal
postscript	PS) extra message added at the end of a letter after the signature
postulate	v. put (sth) forward as a fact or accept (sth) as true, esp as a basis for reasoning or argument
posture	attitude or position of the body
posturer	 [ posture: ] a position or attitude of the limbs or body
posy	 n. small bunch of flowers; bouquet
pot	round vessel made of earthenware, metal, etc for cooking things in
potable	adj. fit for drinking; drinkable ;
potation	 n. act of drinking
potato	plant grown for its rounded starchy tubers which are eaten cooked as a vegetable
potboiler	a literary or artistic work of poor quality, producedquickly for profit
potency	Power.
potent	(of drugs, etc) having a strong effect
potentate	n. ruler with direct power over his people; autocratic monarch
potential	adj. that can or may come into existence; possible
potentiality	 n. (fml ) power or quality that exists but has not been developed
potentially	adv. a potentially rich country, ie one with many natural resources that could be developed
potentiate	 to make effective or active or more effective or more active; also:to augment the activity of (as a drug) synergistically
pother	 an excited state of agitation ; make upset or troubled
potion	 n. drink of medicine, poison or a liquid used in magic
potpourri	heterogeneous mixture;
pottery	earthenware pots, etc made by hand
pouch	small (esp leather) bag carried in the pocket or attached to a belt
poultice	 n. soft heated mass spread on a cloth and put on a sore place on the body to soothe pain, reduce swelling, etc
poultry	n. hens, ducks, geese, turkeys, etc kept for eating or for their eggs; domestic fowls
pounce	 v. ~ make a sudden attack by swooping or springing down
pound	lb) standard measure of weight, 16 ounces in the avoirdupoissystem, equal to 0.454 kg , 160.454
pour	(of a liquid or substance that flows like liquid) flow, esp downwards, in a continuous stream
pout	 v. push the lips or the lower lip forward, esp as a sign of annoyance or sulking
poverty	state of being poor
powder	(substance in the form of a) mass of fine dry particles
power	ability to do or act
powerful	 adj. of or having great power
powerfully	 adv: He is very powerfully built, ie has a large strong physique
powerless	without power or strength
powerlessness	n.
practicable	that can be put into practice; workable
practical	concerned with practiceand action rather than theory
practical joke	 trick played on sb for amusement, usu involving some physical action
practicality	quality or state of being sensible and realistic
practically	almost; virtually
practice	actual doing of sth; action as contrasted with theory
practise	~ (on sth) do sth repeatedly or regularly in order to improve one's skill
practitioner	person who practises a skill or an art
pragmatic	treating things in a sensible and realistic way; concerned with practical results
pragmatism	thinking about or treating things in a practical way
pragmatist	person who acts in a practical way
prairie	n. wide area of level grassland, esp in N America; plain2
praise	~ sb/sth (for sth); ~ sb/sth as sth express approval or admiration for sb/sth
prance	move jerkily by raising the forelegs and springing forward from the hind legs
prank	n. playful or mischievous trick
prankster	n. person who plays pranks
prate	v. ~ (on about sth) talk or chatter too much (about sth)
prattle	v. ~ (away) (of a child) talk in a simple way; babble
prattler	 n. person who prattles (prattle b)
pray	 v. ~ (for sb/sth); ~ sb (for sth) offer thanks, make requests known, etc (to God)
prayer	~ (for sth) solemn request to God or to an object of worship
preach	 v. ~ (to sb) (about/against/on sth) give a sermon, esp in church
preacher	 n. person who preaches, esp a clergyman who preaches sermons
preamble	 n. ~ opening statement explaining the purpose of the book, document, lecture, etc that follows
precarious	depending on chance; uncertain
precariously	 adv. uncertainlty
precaution	 n. ~ thing done in advance to avoid danger, prevent problems, etc
precautionary	adj. done as a precaution; preventive
precede	come or go before in time, order, rank, etc
precedence	 n. ~ right to come before sb/sth in time, order, rank, etc
precedent	n. earlier decision, case, event, etc that is regarded as an example or rule for what comes later
preceding	going or coming before; forme
precept	rule or guide, esp for behaviour
preceptor	n. teacher
precession	 n. gradual change in the angle at which the earth revolves daily, causing the equinoxes to occur slightly earlier in each successive year ,
precinct	area enclosed by definite boundaries, esp the walls of a cathedral, church or college
preciosity	 n. over-refinement in language and art; being precious(3) ;
precious	of great value
precipice	n. very steep or vertical face of a cliff, mountain or rock
precipitant	Moving onward quickly and heedlessly.
precipitate	cause (sth) to happen suddenly or soon(er); hasten
precipitation	violent haste
precipitous	adj. dangerously high or steep
precis	 n. restatement in shortened form of the main points or ideas of a speech or written text; summary
precise	stated clearly andaccurately
precisely	exactly; just
precision	exactness and clarity; quality of being precise(1)
preclude	 v. ~ sb from doing sth prevent (sth, or sb doing sth); make (sth) impossible
precocious	 adj. (of a child) having developed certain abilities at an earlier age than usual
precocity	[ precocious: ] ahead in development, such as the mental development of a child
precognition	 n. knowledge of sth before it occurs
preconception	n. ~ opinion or idea formed in advance and not based on experience or knowledge
precursor	person or thing that comes before sth; forerunner
precursory	 preliminary/anticipating
predator	animal that kills and eats other animals
predatory	(living by) killing other animals for food
predecessor	person who held an office or position before sb else
predestination	 n. theory or belief that everything that happens has been predetermined by God and that man cannot change it
predestine	 decree or determine beforehand ; foreordain or determine beforehand
predetermine	 v. decide or fix (sth) in advance; prearrange
predetermined	[ predetermine: ] to determine beforehand
predicament	n. difficult or unpleasant situation, esp one in which sb is uncertain what to do
predicate	is short
predicative	be become get seem look
predict	v. say in advance that will happen; forecast
predictability	 n.
predictable	adj. that can be predicted
predictably	adv.
predicted	[ predict: ] to state or make a declaration about in advance, esp. on a reasoned basis; foretell
prediction	predicting
predictive	 [ prediction: ] the act of predicting
predictor	n. person, instrument, etc that predicts
predigest	v. treat so that it is easy to digest
predilection	 n. ~ (for sth) special liking (for sth); preference
predispose	~ sb to/towards sth influence sb (in a specified way) in advance
predisposition	 n. ~ ~ (to do sth) state of mind or body that makes sb liable to act in a certain way or to suffer from a certain disease
predominance	~ state of being greater in strength, numbers, etc
predominant	having more power or influence than others
predominate	~ have control, power or influence(over sb/sth)
preeminence	Special eminence.
preeminent	 having paramount rank, dignity, or importance:OUTSTANDING
preempt	to replace with something considered to be of greater value or priority:take precedence over
preemption	 the judicial principle asserting the supremacy of federal over state legislation on the same subject ; the right of a government to seize or appropriate something (as property)
preen	clean or smooth (its feathers or itself) with its beak
preexist	 To exist at a period or in a state earlier than something else.
preexistence	 Existence antecedent to something.
prefabricate	 v. manufacture in sections that can be assembled later on a building site, in a shipyard, etc
preface	introductory statement atthe beginning of a book, esp one that explains the author'saims
prefatory	adj. acting as a preface; introductory
prefer	~ sth (to sth) choose sth rather than sth else; like sth better
preferable	 adj. ~ (to sth/doing sth) to be preferred (to sth); more desirable or suitable
preference	~ (for sth) liking for sth (more than sth else)
preferential	of, giving, receiving or showing preference(
preferentially	 adv: be treated preferentially
preferment	 n. promotion to a higher position or rank
prefiguration	the act of prefiguring
prefigure	represent beforehand (sth that will happen in the future); foreshadow
prefix	un-
pregnancy	n. state or period of being pregnant(1)
pregnant	having a baby or young animal developing in the womb
prehensile	 adj. able to grasp and hold things
prehension	 The act of laying hold of or grasping.
prehistoric	adj. of or concerning the time before recorded history
prehistory	period before recorded history
prejudice	n. opinion, or like or dislike of sb/sth, that is not founded on experience or reason
prejudiced	 adj. having or showing prejudice
prejudicial	adj. ~ fml ) causing harm (to a person's rights, interests,etc)
prelacy	office, rank or see of a prelate
prelate	n. high-ranking clergyman, eg a bishop or an archbishop
preliminary	adj. ~ coming before a more important action or event; preparatory
preliterate	not yet having acquired the ability to read and write ; used of a society that has not developed writing
prelude	~ action or event that happens before another larger or more important one and forms an introduction to it
premature	happening before the proper or expected time
prematurely	[ premature: ] occurring or existing before the normal or expected time
premeditate	v. plan in advance
premeditated	 characterized by fully conscious willful intent and a measure of forethought and planning
premeditation	n.
premier	adj. first in importance, position, etc
premiere	 n. first public performance of a play or showing of a film; first night
premise	statement or idea on which reasoning is based; hypothesis
premises	house or other buildings with its outbuildings, land, etc
premium	amount or instalment regularly paid for an insurance policy
premonition	n. ~ feeling that sth unpleasant is going to happen
premonitory	adj. giving a warning
prenatal	 occurring or present before birth; during pregnancy
preoccupation	state of being preoccupied; absent-mindedness ;
preoccupied	adj. inattentive because one is thinking of or worrying about sth else
preoccupy	v. engage (sb or his mind, thoughts, etc) so that he cannot think of other things; obsess
preordain	To foreordain.
preparation	preparing or being prepared
preparatory	adj. preparing for sth; introductory
prepare	v. ~ (for sb/sth) get or make (sb/sth) ready
preponderance	superiority of power, quantity
preponderant	 adj. greater in influence, importance, quantity, etc
preponderate	 v. ~ (fml ) be greater in influence, importance, quantity, etc (than sth else)
preposition	in from to out of on behalf of
prepositional	adj. of or containing a preposition
prepossess	 to preoccupy or engross mentally
prepossessing	adj. makinga good impression; attractive
prepossession	A preconceived liking.
preposterous	 adj. completely contrary to reason or common sense; absurd or outrageous
prerequisite	 adj. ~ (infml ) required as a condition (for sth)
prerogative	n. right or privilege, esp one belonging to a particular person or group
presage	n. sign that sth (esp sth unpleasant) will happen; omen ;
prescience	b:human anticipation of the course of events:FORESIGHT
prescient	adj. knowing about things before they take place; able to see into the future ;
prescribe	~ sth (for sth) advise or order the use of (esp a medicine, remedy, etc)
prescribed	 [ prescribe: ] to lay down as a rule or directive
prescript	n. law, rule or command
prescription	doctor's written instruction for the composition and use of a medicine
prescriptive	 adj. making rules or giving orders or directions
presence	being present in a place
present	~ (of a person) being in the place in question
presentation	presenting or being presented
presenter	n. person who presents (present3 8c) a programme
presentient	Perceiving or feeling beforehand.
presentiment	 n. vague feeling that sth (esp sth unpleasant) will happen; foreboding
presently	after a short time; soon
presentment	Semblance.
preservation	action of preserving
preservative	 adj. preserving
preserve	keep or maintain (sth) in an unchanged or perfect condition
preserved	[ preserve: ] to keep safe from danger or harm; protect
preserver	n. person or thing that preserves
preset	 to set (a timing device) so that something begins to operate at the time specified
preside	~ be chairman (at a conference, meeting, etc)
president	President elected head of state in the US and many modern republics
presidential	 adj. of a president or presidency
press	act of pushing steadily with the hand
pressing	 adj. urgent
pressure	force or weight of sth pressing continuously on or against sth that it touches
prestidigitation n. performing tricks by conjuring; sleight of hand
	prestidigitation n. performing tricks by conjuring; sleight of hand
prestidigitator	n. conjurer
prestige	respect based on good reputation, past achievements, etc
prestigious	adj. having or bringing prestige
presto	quick(ly)
presumable	 adj. that may be presumed
presumably	 adv. it may be presumed
presume	suppose to be true; take (sth) for granted
presumed	to take (something) for granted; assume
presumption	~ (of sth) presuming sth to be true or the case
presumptuous	 adj. (of a person or his behaviour) too bold or self-confident
presumptuousness [ presumptuous: ] characterized by presumption or tending to presume; bold; forward
	presumptuousness [ presumptuous: ] characterized by presumption or tending to presume; bold; forward
presuppose	assume (sth) to be true beforehand
presupposition	 n(action of) presupposing (presuppose1)
pretence	deception; make-believe
pretend	make oneself appear to be sth in order to deceive others or in play
pretended	[ pretend: ] to claim or allege (something untrue)
pretense	 an inadequate or insincere attempt to attain a certain condition or quality
pretension	~ (making of a) claim
pretentious	adj. claiming merit or importance; pompous or showy
pretentiousness	n.
preternatural	adj. beyond what is natural or normal; unusual
pretext	n. ~ reason given (for doing sth) that is not the real reason; excuse
prettily	 adv. in a pretty or charming way
pretty	pleasing and attractive, without being beautiful or magnificent
prevail	~ exist or happen generally; be widespread
prevailing	 adj. most usual orwidespread
prevalence	 n. being prevalent
prevalent	adj. ~ (among/in sth/sb) existing or happening generally; widespread
prevaricate	v. try to avoid telling the (whole) truth by speaking in an evasive or a misleading way; equivocate
prevarication	n. prevaricating
prevaricator	 n. person who prevaricates
prevent	~ sb/sth (from doing sth) stop or hinder sb/sth
preventable	adj. that can be prevented
prevention	preventing
preventive	 adj. preventing or intendedto prevent sth; precautionary
preview	n. showing of a film, an exhibition, a play, etc before it is shown to the general public
previous	coming before in time or order
previously	 adv: She had previously worked in television
prevision	a prophetic vision (as in a dream) ; the power to foresee the future
prey	animal, bird, etc hunted and killed by another for food
price	amount of money for which sth is bought or sold
prick	act of pricking
prickle	small pointed growth on the stem or leaf of a plant; thorn
prickliness	[ prickly: ] having or covered with prickles
prickly	very irritable ; having or covered with protective barbs or quills or spines or thorns etc.
pride	~ (in sb/sth) feeling of pleasure or satisfaction which one gets from doing sth well, from owning sth excellent or widely admired, etc
prideful	 [ pride: ] a feeling of honour and self-respect; a sense of personal worth
priest	person appointed to perform religious duties and ceremonies in the Christian Church, esp one who is between a deacon and a bishop in the Roman Catholic, Orthodox or Anglican Church ; , clergyman
prig	 n. person who behaves as ifhe were morally superior to everyone else, and disapprovesof what others do; self-righteous person ;
priggery	 [ prig: ] another word for: steal
priggish	 adj. of or like a prig
prim	(of a person) disliking anything that is improper, rude or rough; prudish
primacy	leadingposition; pre-eminence
primal	first or original; primeval
primarily	adv. mainly
primary	earliest in time or order of development
primate	n. archbishop
prime	most important; chief; fundamental
primer	 n. textbook for people just starting to study a subject
primeval	 adj. of the earliest period of the history of the world
primitive	of or at an early stage of social development
primogeniture	fact of being a first-born child
primordial	 adj. existing at or from the beginning, esp of the world or the universe; primeval
primp	(derog ) tidy (oneself, one's hair, etc) in a fussy way
prince	male member of a royal family who is not the king, esp (in Britain) a son or grandson of the sovereign
princely	 adj. of, like or ruled by a prince
princess	 n. female member of a royal family who is not the queen, esp (in Britain) the daughter or granddaughter of the sovereign
principal	adj. first in rank or importance; chief; main
principality	country ruled by a prince
principally	adv. for the most part; chiefly
principle	basic general truth that underlies sth
principled	 adj. based on or having (esp good) principles (principle 2) of behaviour
print	letters, words, numbers, etc in printed form
printer	person whose job is printing
prior	adj. coming before in time, order or importance
prioritization	 [ prioritize: ] to arrange (items to be attended to) in order of their relative importance
priority	~ (state of) being more important (in rank)
priory	 n. monastery governed by a prior or convent governed by a prioress
prism	solid geometric shape with ends that are parallel and of the same size and shape, and with sides that are parallelograms
prison	place where people are kept locked up as a punishment for crimes they have committed or while awaiting trial
prisoner	person kept in prison, as a punishment or awaiting trial
prissy	 adj. (derog ) annoyinglyprecise and fussy, and (claiming to be) easily shocked by improper things
pristine	in its original condition; unspoilt
privacy	state of being alone or undisturbed
private	of, belonging to or for the use of one particular person or group only; personal
privateer	n. (captainof or sailor on a) ship used for attacking and robbing other ships; pirate (ship)
privately	adv: The matter was arranged privately. * He supported the official policy in public, but privately he knew it would fail. * a privately-owned firm
privation	lack of things necessary for life; deprivation
privilege	special right or advantage available only to a particular person, class or rank, or to the holder of a certain position
privily	adv. privately; secretly ;
privity	Knowledge shared with another or others regarding a private matter.
privy	private; secret
prize	award given to the winner of a competition, race, etc
probability	likelihood
probable	 adj. that may be expected to happen or to be so; likely
probably	 adv. almost certainly
probate	official process of proving that a will is correct
probation	(system of) keeping an official check on the behaviour of (esp young) people found guilty of crime as an alternative to sending them to prison
probationary	 adj. of or for probation
probe	tool for examining a place whichcannot be reached otherwise, esp a thin implement with a blunt end used by a doctor for examining a wound
probing	[ probe: ] vt. to search into or question closely
probity	n. quality of being honest and trustworthy; integrity ;
problem	thing that is difficult to deal with or understand
problematic	difficult to deal with or to understand
problematical	[ problematic: ] having the nature or appearance of a problem; questionable
proboscis	n. elephant's trunk
procedure	order or way of doing things, esp in business, law, politics, etc
proceed	~ (to sth) go to a further or the next stage; go on
proceeding	 an act or course of action
proceeds	 n. ~ money obtained by selling sth, presenting a performance,etc; profits
process	series of actions or operations performed in order to do, make or achieve sth
procession	number of people, vehicles, etc moving along in an orderly way, esp as part of a ceremony or demonstration
proclaim	make known officially or publicly; announce
proclamation	action of proclaiming
proclivity	 n. ~ (fml ) natural inclination to do sth (esp sth bad); tendency
procrastinate	v. delay or postpone action
procrastination	procrastinating
procrastinator	 [ procrastinate: ] to put off or defer (an action) until a later time; delay
procreate	v. reproduce offspring sexually
procrustean	adj. tending or designed to produce conformity by violent or ruthless method
proctor	(at the universities of Oxford and Cambridge) either of two officials with responsibility for discipline
procure	~ sth (fml ) obtain sth, esp with care or effort; acquire
procurement	n. obtaining
prod	~ (at sb/sth) push or poke (sb/sth) with a finger or some other pointed object
prodigal	spending money or resources too freely; extravagant
prodigality	n. (derog ) wasteful spending; extravagance ;
prodigally	 adv: use resources prodigally
prodigious	 adj. very great in size, amount or degree, so as to cause amazement or admiration; enormous
prodigy	person with unusual or remarkable qualities or abilities
produce	~ sth create sth by making, manufacturing, growing, etc
producer	person, company, country, etc that produces goods or materials
product	thing or substance produced by a natural or manufacturing process
production	action of manufacturing, extracting, etc, esp in large quantities
productive	producing or able to produce goods or crops, esp in large quantities
productivity	ability to produce (eg goods or crops); state of being productive
profane	not sacred; secular
profanity	profane behaviour, esp the use of profane language
profess	claim (sth), often falsely
profession	paid occupation, esp one that requires advanced education and training, eg architecture, law or medicine
professional	of or belonging to a profession
professor	(US also full professor) (title of a) university teacher of the highest grade who holds a chair(3) in a subject
professorial	 adj. of or like a professor
professorship	n. position of a university professor; chair
proffer	v. ~ sth(fml ) offer sth
proficiency	n. ~ eing proficient (in sth)
proficient	 adj. ~ doing or able to do sth in a skilled or an expert way because of training and practice
profile	side view, esp of the human face
profit	financial gain
profitability	n.
profitable	 adj. bringing profit or advantage; beneficial
profitably	 adv: They invested the money very profitably. * She spent the weekend profitably
profiteer	v. maketoo large a profit, esp by exploiting people in difficult times (eg in a war or famine)
profitless	 adj. without profit1(
profligacy	 n. being profligate
profligate	recklessly extravagant or wasteful
profound	deep, intense or far-reaching; verygreat
profoundly	 adv. deeply; extremely
profundity	depth (esp of knowledge, thought, etc)
profuse	in large amounts; abundant
profusion	~ of sth abundant supply of sth
progenitor	ancestor (of a person, an animal or a plant)
progeny	n. offspring
prognosis	n. (medical) forecast of the likely course of a disease or an illness
prognosticate	tell (sth) in advance; predict
program	=programme
programmability	[ programmable: ] adj. (esp. of a device or operation) capable of being programmed for automatic operation or computer processing
progress	forward or onward movement
progression	~ (to sth) (process of) moving forward or developing,esp in stages or gradually; progressing
progressive	making a continuous forward movement
prohibit	~ sth/sb (from doing sth) forbid sth or sb from doing sth esp by laws, rules or regulations
prohibited	 [ prohibit: ] to forbid by law or other authority
prohibition	forbidding or being forbidden
prohibitionist	 n. person who supports the prohibition of sth by law, esp the sale of alcoholic drinks
prohibitive	intended to or tending to prevent the use or purchase of sth
prohibitory	adj. intended to prohibit sth
project	scheme or undertaking
projected	[ project: ] a proposal, scheme, or design
projectile	 n. object (to be) shot forward, esp from a gun
projection	projecting or being projected
projector	n. apparatus for projecting photographs or films onto a screen
proletarian	member of the working class
proletariat	n. the proletariat class of (esp industrial and manual) workers who do not own the means of production and earn their living by working for wages
proliferate	produce new growth or offspring rapidly; multiply ;
proliferation	proliferating or being proliferated
prolific	producing much fruit or many flowers or offspring
prolifically	 adv.
prolix	 adj. (of a speech, writer, etc) using too many words and so boring to listen to or read
prolixity	n.
prologue	introductory part of a poem or play
prolong	make longer, esp in time; extend
prolonged	adj. continuing for a long time
promenade	prom) public place for walking, esp a paved area along the waterfront at the seaside
prominence	state of being prominent
prominent	jutting out; projecting
prominently	adv: The notice was prominently displayed
promiscuity	promiscuous sexual relations
promiscuous	not carefully chosen; indiscriminate or casual
promise	~ written or spoken declaration that one will give or do or not do sth
promisee	a person to whom a promise is made
promising	adj. likely to do well; full of promise (3)
promissory	 adj. conveying a promise
promontory	 n. area of high land jutting out into the sea or a lake; headland ; .
promote	to contribute to the growth or prosperity of:FURTHER
promoter	 n. person who organizes or finances (esp a business company or a sporting event)
promotion	raising or being raised to a higher rank or position
promotional	adj. of or relating topromotion
prompt	done without delay; punctual
prompting	n. urging or persuading
promptly	 adv: She replied promptly to my letter
promptness	 the characteristic of doing things without delay ; the quality or habit of adhering to an appointed time
promulgate	make (sth) widely known; disseminate
promulgation	 n.
prone	lying flat, esp face downwards
prong	n. each of the two or more long pointed parts of a fork
pronoun	he it hers me them
pronounce	make the sound of (in a particular way)
pronounceable	adj. that can be pronounced
pronounced	very noticeable
pronouncement	n. ~ formal statement or declaration
pronunciation	(a)way in which a language is spoken
proof	evidence that shows, or helps to show, that sth is true or is a fact
prop	rigid support, esp a piece of wood, used to prevent sth falling or sagging
propaganda	 n. publicity that is intended to spread ideas or information which will persuade or convince people
propagandist	 n. person who creates or spreads propaganda
propagate	increase the number of by a natural processfrom the parent stock
propagation	n. propagating or being propagated
propagator	 person or thing that propagates
propel	 v. move, driveor push (sth) forward
propellant	 n. propelling agent, eg an explosive that propels a bullet from a weapon, a fuel that provides thrust for a rocket, or compressed gas that forces out the contents of an aerosol container
propellent	 adj. that propels
propeller	n. two or more spiral blades fixed to a revolving shaft for propelling a ship or an aircraft
propensity	 n. ~ (for doing/to do sth) (fml ) inclination or tendency
proper	that fits, belongs or is suitable; fitting or appropriate
properly	in a proper manner
property	thing or things owned; possession
prophecy	saying what will happen in the future
prophesy	~ (of sth) foretell future events; speak as a prophet; make prophecies ;
prophet	person who tells, or claims to be able to tell, what will happen in the future
prophetic	of or like a prophet or prophets
prophetically	adv: We were to realize years later how prophetically he spoke on that occasion
prophylactic	 adj. tending to prevent a disease or misfortune
propinquity	n. nearness in space or time
propitiate	 v. win the favour or forgiveness of (sb) (esp when he is angry) by a pleasing act; appease or placate
propitiatory	 adj. serving or intended to propitiate
propitious	 adj. ~ (fml ) giving or indicating a good chance of success; favourable
proponent	n. ~ person who supports a cause, theory, etc
proportion	comparative part or share of a whole; fraction
proportional	 adj. ~ (fml ) corresponding in size, amount or degree (to sth); in the correct proportion
proportionate	adj. ~ (fml ) in proportion (to sth); corresponding to sth
proposal	action of suggesting or putting forward
propose	offer or put forward for consideration; suggest
proposition	~ (that...)statement that expresses a judgement or an opinion; assertion
propound	 v. put (sth) forward for consideration or solution
proprietary	(of goods) manufactured and sold by a particular firm, usu under patent
proprietor	 n. owner, esp of a business firm, hotel or patent
propriety	state of being correct in one's social or moral behaviour
propulsion	 n. driving forward or being driven forward
propulsive	 adj. that drives sth (esp a vehicle) forward
prorogation	n. (instance of) proroguing
prorogue	 v. bring (a session of Parliament) to an end without dissolvingParliament (so that unfinished business may be continuedin the next session)
prosaic	adj. uninspired; unimaginative
proscenium	 n. the part of the stage in front of the curtain
proscribe	state officially that (sth) is dangerous or forbidden
proscription	 n. (instance of) proscribing or beingproscribed
prose	n. written or spoken language that is not in verse form
prosecute	~ sb bring a criminal charge against sb in a court of law
prosecution	prosecuting (prosecute 1) or being prosecuted for acriminal offence
prosecutor	 n. person who prosecutes in a court of law
proselyte	n. person who has been converted from one set of religious, political, etc beliefs to another
proselytize	to recruit or convert especially to a new faith, institution, or cause
proselytizer	to convert (someone) from one religious faith to another
prosody	science of verse forms and poetic metres
prospect	(dated ) wide view of a landscape, etc
prospective	adj. expected to be or to occur; future or possible
prospector	 n. person who explores a region looking for gold, ores, etc
prospects	a probability or chance for future success, esp. as based on present work or aptitude
prospectus	 n. printed document, leaflet, etc giving details of and advertising sth, eg a private school or a new business
prosper	v. be successful; thrive
prospering	 [ prosper: ] to thrive, succeed, etc., or cause to thrive, succeed, etc. in a healthy way
prosperity	 n. state of being successful or rich; good fortune
prosperous	 adj. successful or thriving, esp financially
prostrate	stretched out on the ground face downward, esp because of exhaustion or in order to show submission, respect, etc
protagonist	(fml ) chief character in a drama; hero
protean	adj. that can change quickly and easily; variable ;
protect	~ sb/sth (against/from sth) keep sb/sth safe from harm, injury, etc; defend sb/sth
protection	~ (against sth) protecting or being protected
protective	that protects or is intended to protect
protector	person who protects
protege	[ protg: ] a person who is protected and aided by the patronage of another person
protein	n. substance found in meat, eggs, fish, etc that is an important body-building part of the diet of humans and animals
protest	statement or anaction that shows one's strong dispproval or disagreement
protestant	 n, adj of any of the Christian bodies that separated from theChurch of Rome in the 16th century, or of their branchesformed later 16
Protestantism	n. system of beliefs, teachings, etc of the Protestants
protestation	 n. solemn declaration
protocol	system of rules governing formal occasions, eg meetings between governments, diplomats, etc; official etiquette
protomartyr	The earliest victim in any cause.
proton	 n. elementary particle with a positive electric charge, which is present in the nuclei of all atoms
protoplasm	 n. colourless jelly-like substancethat forms the basis of all animal and plant cells and tissues
prototype	n. first or original example of sth that has been or will be copied or developed; model or preliminary version
protract	 v. make (sth) last a long time or longer; lengthen or prolong
protracted	 prolonged
protracted illness 
	protracted illness 
protrude	 v. ~ (from sth) (cause sth to) jut or stick out from a surface; (cause sth to) project
protruding	 [ protrude: ] to thrust or cause to thrust forwards or outwards
protrusion	 n. protruding
protrusive	 adj. protruding
protuberance	 n. being protuberant
protuberant	adj. bulging, curving or swelling outwards from a surface; prominent
proud	adj. (approv ) ~ (of sb/sth); ~ (to do sth/that...) feeling or showing justifiable pride (1a)
provable	 that can be proved
prove	v. ~ sth (to sb) show that sth is true or certain by means of argument or evidence
proven	that has been tested or demonstrated
provenance	 n. (place of) origin
provender	food for horses and cattle, eg hay or oats; fodder
proverb	n. short well-known saying that states a general truth or gives advice, eg `It takes two to make a quarrel' or `Don't put all your eggs in one basket'
proverbial	of, like or expressed in a proverb
proverbially	 adv.
provide	~ sb ~ sth (for sb) make sth available for sb to use by giving, lending or supplying it
provided	 conj on the condition or understanding that
providence	way in which God or nature cares for and protects all creatures
provident	adj. having or showing wisdom for future needs; thrifty
providential	 adj. occurring just at the right time when needed
province	any of the main administrative divisions in certain countries
provincial	of a province (1)
provincialism	provincial (
provision	~ of sth giving, lending, supplying or making sth available; providing sth
provisional	adj. for the presenttime only, with the possibility of being changed, etc later; temporary
provisions	 [ provision: ] the act of supplying or providing food, etc.
proviso	n. clause, etc that is insisted on as a condition of an agreement
provisory	adj. containing a proviso; conditional
provocation	making sb angry by deliberately doing sth annoying or offensive; provoking or being provoked
provocative	tending or intended to arouse anger, annoyance, controversy, etc
provoke	make (sb) angry or annoyed
provoking	adj. annoying
prowess	n. outstanding skill or ability; expertise
prowl	~ (about/around) move quietly and cautiously
prowler	n. person or animal that prowls
proximate	,
proximity	n. ~ (to sth) nearness in space or time; closeness
proxy	person authorized to act on behalf of another
prude	n. person who behaves in an extremely or unnaturally proper manner, esp one who is (too) easily shocked by sexual matters
prudence	 n. (quality of) being prudent; forethought or wisdom
prudent	adj. acting with or showing care and foresight; showing good judgement
prudential	 Proceeding or marked by caution.
prudery	n. behaviour or attitude of a prude
prudish	adj. of or like a prude
prune	n. dried plum
prurience	n. quality or state of being prurient
prurient	 adj. having or showing excessive interest in sexual matters
pry	v. ~ (into sth) inquire too curiously or rudely about other people's private affairs
psalm	n. sacred song or hymn, esp one of those in the Book of Psalms in the Old Testament
psephological	adj. of or relating to psephology
psephologist	 n. expert in or student of psephology
psephology	 n. study of the way in which people vote in elections, esp by means of opinion polls
pseudonym	n. person's name that is not his real name, esp one used by an author; pen-name
pseudonymity	 The state or character of using a fictitious name.
psych	~ sb (out) make sb nervous or less confident, etc, esp by psychological means
psyche	 n. human soul or mind
psychedelic	producing hallucinations
psychiatric	adj. of or concerning psychiatry
psychiatrist	 n. specialist in psychiatry
psychiatry	 n. study and treatment of mental illness
psychic	concerned with processes and phenomena that seem to be outside physical or natural laws
psychoanalysis	 n. repeatedly interviewing a person in order to make him aware of experiences in his early life and trace the connection between them and his present behaviour or feelings
psychoanalyst	n. person who practises psychoanalysis
psychoanalytic	 [ psychoanalysis: ] psychoanalytic
psychoanalytically 
	psychoanalytically 
psychological	of or affecting the mind
psychologically	adv. ,psychological `warfare weakening an enemy's morale or by trying to change his attitudes, beliefs, etc
psychologist	 n. student of or expert in psychology
psychology	science or study of the mind and how it functions
psychopath	 n. person suffering from a severe mental or emotional disorder,esp one who behaves in a violently aggressive or antisocialway ,
psychopathic	 adj. of or suffering from a severe emotional or mental disorder
psychosis	n. severe mental illness that affects the whole personality
psychosomatic	caused or made worse by mental stress
psychotherapist	n. person who treats people by using psychotherapy
psychotherapy	n. treatment of mental disorders by psychological methods
psychotic	adj. of or suffering from psychosis
pterodactyl	n. extinct flying reptile
pub	n. public house
puberty	n. stage at which a person's sexual organs are maturing and he or she becomes capable of having children
public	of or concerning people in general
publication	action of making a book or periodical, available to the public
publicity	state of being known to, seen by, etc the public
publicize	make public ; call attention to
publish	prepare, have printed and distribute to the public (a book, periodical, etc)
publisher	n. person or firm that publishes books, newspapers, etc
pucker	 v. ~ (up) (cause sth to) form small folds or wrinkles
puckish	adj. mischievous, esp in a playful way; impish
pudding	(Brit) (dish of) sweet food eaten at the end of a meal; dessert
puddle	 n. small pool of water, esp of rain-water on the road
pudgy	adj. (infml ) short and fat; podgy
puerile	adj. showing immaturity; childish and silly
puerility	n. puerile behaviour; childishness ;
puff	(sound of a) short light blowing of breath or wind
puffery	(informal)
pugilism	 n. professionalboxing
pugilist	 n. professionalboxer
pugilistic	 adj. (fml ) of or like a pugilist
pugnacious	 adj. inclined or eager to fight; aggressive
pugnacity	n.
puissance	Power; might
puissant	 powerful; strong; potent
puke	 v. ~ (up) (sl ) vomit
pulchritude	physical comeliness
pulchritudinous	[ pulchritude: ]
pull	~ act of pulling; tug
pullet	 n. young domestic hen, esp at the time she begins to lay eggs
pulley	wheel or wheels with grooves for ropes or chains, used for lifting things
pullulate	produce buds, branches, or germinate; of plants ; become abundant; increase rapidly
pulmonary	adj. of, in or affecting the lungs
pulp	soft fleshy inner part of fruit; flesh
pulpit	raised and enclosed platform in a church, where a clergyman stands when he is preaching .
pulpy	adj. like or containing a lot of pulp(1c)
pulsate	expand and contract rhythmically; throb
pulsating	[ pulsate: ] to expand and contract with a rhythmic beat; throb
pulse	regular beating of the arteries as blood is pumped through them by the heart, esp as felt at the wrist
pulverize	to reduce (as by crushing, beating, or grinding) to very small particles:ATOMIZE
puma	 n. large brown American animal of the cat family
pummel	 v. strike (sb/sth) repeatedly, esp with the fist(s); beat
pummelling	 n. severe beating
pump	machine or device for forcing liquid, gas or air into, out of or through sth, eg water from a well, petrol from a storage tank, air into a tyre or oil through a pipe-line
pumpkin	n. (plant that bears a) large round orange-coloured fruit with many seeds
pun	n. ~ humorous use of a word that has two meanings or of different words that sound the same, eg `She told the child to try not to be so trying'; play on words
punch	grotesque humpbacked figure in a traditional puppet show called Punch and Judy
punctilious	adj. very careful to carry out one's duties, etc correctly; very attentive to details of behaviour or ceremony
punctual	 adj. happening or doing sth at the agreed or proper time
punctuality	n. being punctual
punctually	 adv: arrive, depart,etc punctually
punctuate	put full stops, commas, colons, question marks, etc into
punctuation	n. punctuating
puncture	 n. small hole made by a sharp point, esp one made accidentally in a tyre
pundit	very learned Hindu
pungency	 n. quality or state of being pungent
pungent	having a sharp or strong taste or smell
punish	~ sb (for sth) (by/with sth) hurt, imprison, fine, etc sb for wrongdoing
punishable	 adj. ~ that can be punished (esp by law)
punishment	 n. punishing or being punished
punitive	 adj. intended as punishment
puny	 adj. (usu derog ) small, weak and underdeveloped
pupil	n. person, esp a child, who is taught in school or privately
pupilage	 The state or period of being a student.
puppet	doll or small figure of an animal, etc, either a marionette that can be made to move by pulling wires or strings attached to its jointed limbs, or a glove puppet that fits one's hand so that one can move the head and arms with one's fingers
puppy	young dog
purblind	 dim-sighted; obtuse
purchase	(action of) buying sth
pure	 adj. (in senses 1b
purebred	 a pedigreed animal of unmixed lineage; used especially of horses ; bred for many generation from member of a recognized breed or strain
purely	 adv. merely or entirely
purgation	n. purging or purification
purgative	n, adj that causes the bowels to empty; strong(ly) laxative
purgatory	(in Roman Catholic teaching) place or condition in which the souls of the dead are purified by suffering in preparation for Heaven
purge	~ sb ~ sth (away) make sb clean or pure by removing (evil, sin, etc)
purification	 n. purifying
purify	 v. ~ sth (of sth) make sth pure by removing dirty, harmful or foreign substances
purist	 n. person who pays great attention to correctness, esp in the use of language or in the arts
puritanical	adj. very strict and severe in morals
puritanically	adv: puritanically opposed to pleasure
puritanism	 n. practices and beliefs of a Puritan or a puritan
purity	 n. state or quality of being pure
purl	 n. stitch in knitting that produces ridges on the upper side
purlieu	a frequently visited place:HAUNT
purlieus	 n. outlying parts; outskirts
purloin	v. steal (sth)
purple	having the colour of red and blue mixed together
purport	n. ~ (fml ) general meaning or intention (of sth)
purported	adj. alleged; supposed; rumoured
purpose	thing that one intends to do, get, be, etc; intention
purposeful	 adj. having or showing determinationor will-power; resolute
purposefully	 adv: He strode purposefully into the meeting
purposefulness	 [ purposeful: ] having a definite purpose in view
purposive	relating to, having, or indicating conscious intention
purposively	[ purposive: ] relating to, having, or indicating conscious intention
purposiveness	[ purposive: ] relating to, having, or indicating conscious intention
purse	small bag for money
pursue	follow (sb/sth), esp in order to catch or kill; chase ,
pursuit	~ of sth action of pursuing (pursue
purvey	 v. ~ sth (fml ) provide or supply (esp food, etc) to sb as atrader
purveyance	 the act of supplying something
purveyor	 n. person or firm that supplies goods or services
purview	n. range of operation or activity; scope
push	act of pushing; shove
pushy	adj. (also pushing) adj (infml derog , ) trying constantly to draw attention to oneself and gain an advantage; self-assertive
pusillanimous	adj. cowardly; timid ;
put	move (sth/sb), esp away from oneself, so that it/he is in the specified place or position
putative	 adj. generally supposed to be; reputed
putrefaction	putrefying
putrefy	v. (cause sth to) rot or decay; become or make putrid
putrescent	 adj. inthe process of rotting
putrid	(esp of animal or vegetable matter) that has become rotten; decomposed
putsch	 n. attempt to overthrow a governmentby force; political revolution ;
puttee	 n. long narrow strip of cloth that is wound round the leg from the ankle to the knee for protection and support, esp as part of an army uniform ,
puzzle	questionthat is difficult to understand or answer; mystery
puzzled	[ puzzle: ] to perplex or be perplexed
puzzler	n. person or thing that puzzles
puzzling	 adj. a puzzling statement, affair, attitude
pygmy	Pygmy member of a tribal group of very short people living in equatorial Africa
pyjamas	loose-fitting jacket and trousers worn for sleeping in, esp by men
pylon	tall steel framework used for carrying overhead high-voltage electric cables
pyramid	structure with a flat square or triangular base and sloping sides that meet in a point at the top, esp one of those built of stone by the ancient Egyptians as tombs
pyramidal	adj. having the shape of a pyramid
pyre	 n. large pile of wood, etc for burning a dead body as part of a funeral ceremony
pyromania	n. illness that causes an uncontrollable desire to start fires
pyromaniac	 n. person who suffers from pyromania
pyrotechnic	Pertaining to fireworks or their manufacture.
python	 n. large snake that crushes and kills its prey by twisting itself round it
pyx	n. container in which bread that has been consecrated for Holy Communion is kept
quack	interj, n harsh sound made by a duck
quackery	 n. methods or practices of a quack
quadrangle	plane figurewith four sides, esp a square or rectangle
quadrangular	 adj. having four sides
quadrate	 To divide into quarters.
quadrilateral	n, adj with four sides
quadruped	n. four-footed animal
quadruple	adj. consisting of four parts, individuals or groups
quaff	v. drink (sth) by swallowing large amounts at a time, not taking small sips
quagmire	 n. area of soft wet ground; bog or marsh
quail	n. small bird, similar to a partridge .
quaint	 adj. attractively odd or old-fashioned
quake	shake
qualification	qualifying or becoming qualified
qualified	having completed the relevant training or examination
qualify	v. ~ (sb) (for/as sth) have or give (sb) the qualities, training, etc that are necessary or suitable (for sth)
qualitative	adj. of or concerned with quality
qualitatively	adv.
quality	degree of goodness or worth
qualm	n. feeling of doubt, esp about whether what one is doing is right; misgiving
qualms	 [ qualm: ] a sudden feeling of sickness or nausea
quandary	 n. state of not being able to decide what to do; awkward or difficult situation
quantifiable	 adj.
quantify	 v. express or measure the quantity of (sth)
quantitative	 adj. of or concerned with quantity
quantity	that which makes it possible to measure things through having number, size, weight, etc
quantum	n. (fml ) amount that is required or desired
quarantine	 n. isolation for people or animals that may carry an infectious disease, until it is known that there is no danger of the disease being passed on to others
quarrel	~ (about/over sth) angry argument or disagreement
quarrelsome	adj. likely to start a quarrel; quick-tempered ;
quarry	 n. animal or bird that is being hunted
quart	measure of capacity for liquids, equal to
quarter	each of four equal or corresponding parts of sth
quarterly	adj. adv produced or occurring once every three months
quartet	four players or singers
quarto	4to, qto) size of page made by folding a standard sheet of paper twice to form eight pages
quartz	 n. any of various types of hard mineral
quash	reject (by legal procedure) as not valid; declare (sth) not to be enforceable by law
quaver	shake; tremble
quavery	adj. shaking; tremulous
quay	 n. landing-place, usu built of stone or iron, for loading and unloading ships
queasy	 adj. having a tendency to feel sick; feeling sick
queen	female ruler of an independent state, usu inheriting the position by right of birth
queer	different from what is expected; strange, esp in an unpleasant way
quell	v. put an end to (sth); suppress
quench	extinguish (fire, flames, etc), esp with water
quenched	 [ quench: ] to satisfy (one's thirst, desires, etc.); slake
querulous	adj. complaining; irritable
query	question
quest	~ (for sth) act of seeking sth; search or pursuit
question	form of expression in speech or writing that requests an answer from sb
questionable	 adj. that can be doubted; not certainly true or advisable or honest
questioning	proceeding from or characterized by a feeling of doubt or uncertainty
questionnaire	n. writtenor printed list of questions to be answered by a number of people, esp to collect statistics or as part of a survey
queue	line of people, vehicles, etc waiting for sth or to do sth
quibble	objection or criticism, esp atrivial one
quick	(capable of) moving fast or doing sth in a short time
quicken	become quicker
quickie	n. thing that is made or done very quickly
quickly	adv: speak, write, run, learn very quickly
quicksilver	n. = mercury
quick-witted	 adj. able to think quickly; intelligent ;
quiescence	 Quiet.
quiescent	adj. inactive; passive; quiet
quiet	with little or no sound; not noisy or loud
quietly	adv: This car engine runs very quietly. * She died quietly in her bed
quietude	 n. stillness; calm ;
quietus	n. (fml ) release from life; extinction
quill	(also `quill-feather) large feather from the wing or tail .
quilt	n. thick covering for a bed, made of cloth padded with soft material
quintessence	essential part of (a theory, speech, condition, etc)
quintet	n. five players or singers
quintuplet	 n. any of five children born to the same mother at one birth
quip	 n. witty or sarcastic remark
quirk	habit or action that is peculiar to sb/sth
quirkiness	 [ quirk: ] an individual peculiarity of character; mannerism or foible
quirky	 [ quirk: ] an individual peculiarity of character; mannerism or foible
quisling	 n. traitor, esp one who helps an enemy occupying his country ,
quit	go away from (a place); leave
quite	(used esp with adjs or advs that refer to a gradable quality ) to some extent; not very; fairly
quitter	n. person who does not finish a task he has started, esp one that is done as a duty
quiver	 v. tremble slightly or vibrate
quixotic	 adj. noble, unselfish or gallant in an extravagant or impractical way
quiz	 n. competition, esp on TV or radio, in which people try to answer questions to test their knowledge
quizzical	adj. in a questioning manner, esp when amused
quizzically	adv: She looked at me quizzically
quorum	 n. minimum number of people who must be present at a meeting (of a committee, etc) before it can proceed and its decisions, etc can be considered valid
quota	fixed share that must be done or contributed or received
quotation	quoting or being quoted
quote	~ (from sb/sth) repeat in speech or writing (words previously said or written by another person)
quotidian	adj. everyday; commonplace
rabbit	small burrowing animal of the hare family with long ears and a short furry tail
rabbity	adj. like a rabbit in appearance, smell or taste
rabble	disorderly crowd; mob ;
rabid	suffering from rabies
rabies	 n. fatal virus disease causing madness in dogs, foxes and other animals, transmitted to humans usu by a bite ,
race	~ ~ (between A and B) contest of speed between runners, horses, vehicles, etc to see which reaches a certain place first, or does sth first
racial	 adj. characteristic of race3(1a); due to or resulting from race
racially	 adv: a racially diverse community
raciness	 => racy
racing	 n. hobby, sport or profession of competing in horse or vehicle races
racism	 n. =racialism
racist	 n, adj =racialist
rack	framework, usu with bars or pegs, for holding things or for hanging things on
racket	.
racketeer	n. personinvolved in or controlling a racket2(2)
rackety	adj. noisy
raconteur	n. person who tells stories skilfully and wittily
racy	(of speech, writing, etc) lively or spirited; vivid
radar	n. system for detecting the presence, position or movement of solid objects within its range by sending out short radio waves which they reflect
radial	 adj. of or arranged like rays or radii; having bars, lines, etc that radiate from a central point
radiance	 n. quality of being radiant(1
radiant	sending out rays of light; shining brightly
radiate	send out rays of (light or heat)
radiation	(the sending out of) heat, energy, etc in the form of rays
radiator	apparatus for radiating heat into rooms, etc, esp a metal casing through which hot water or steam is circulated
radical	of or from the root or base; fundamental
radicalism	 n. radical(3) ideas and principles
radically	adv: radically altered, improved, etc
radii	pl of radius
radio	process of sending and receiving messages, etc by electromagnetic waves without a connecting wire
radioactive	adj. having atoms that break up and send out radiation which canpenetrate opaque bodies and sometimes produce harmfulelectrical effects
radioactivity	n.
radiocarbon	a radioactive isotope of carbon, esp. carbon-14
radish	 n. plant with a crisp hot-tasting root
radium	 n. chemical element, a shining white radioactive metal used in the treatment of some diseases, eg cancer
radius	(length of a) straight line from the centre of a circle or sphere to any point on its circumference or surface .
radix	That from or on which something is developed.
raffish	adj. flashy or slightly disreputable; rakish
raffle	 n. lottery with an article as the prize
raft	 n. flat floating structure of logs, barrels, etc tied together, used esp as a substitute for a boat
rafter	 n. any of the parallel sloping beams supporting the tiles, slates, etc of a roof
raftered	 adj. having rafters, esp ones that are exposed, eg because there is no ceiling
rag	odd cloth, usu torn, frayed, etc
ragamuffin	 n. person, esp a small boy, in dirty untidy clothes
rage	(fit of) violent anger
ragged	(of clothes) badly worn or in rags; tattered
ragtime	n. type of popular 19
raid	sudden surprise attack and withdrawal by troops, ships or aircraft
rail	level or sloping bar or connected series of bars of wood or metal, eg forming part of a fence, the top of a banister, a protective barrier, etc
railhead	 n. furthest point reached by a railway that is being built
raillery	 n. good-humoured mockery or ridicule
railroad	 n. railway . v (phr v) railroad sb into (doing) sth (infml ) force sb to do sth
railway	track with rails (rail1
raiment	n. clothing
rain	condensed moisture of the atmosphere falling as separate drops; fall of these drops
rainbow	n. arch containing the colours of the spectrum, formed in the sky when the sun shines through rain or spray
raincoat	 n. light waterproof or water-resistant coat
rainfall	 n. total amount of rain falling within a given area in a given time
rainy	(of a day, period, etc) on or in which much rain falls; (of sky, weather, etc) bringing much rain
raise	lift or move (sth) to a higher level; cause to rise
raisin	 n. dried sweet grape, used in cakes, puddings, etc
rake	long-handled tool with a row of prongs at the end for drawing together fallen leaves, smoothing soil, etc
rakish	of or like a rake
rally	v. ~ (round/to sb/sth); ~ (round) (of people) come together, esp to make new efforts, eg after a defeat or when there is danger, need, etc
ram	uncastrated male sheep .
ramble	walk for pleasure with no special destination
rambler	person who rambles
rambling	extending in various directions irregularly
rambunctious	 adj. =rumbustious
ramification	 n. part of a complex structure; secondary consequence, esp one that complicates
ramify	 v. (fml ) (cause sth to) branch out in many directions; make or become a network
ramose	 Branch-like.
ramp	slope joining two levels of ground, a floor, a road, etc
rampage	v. rush around wildly or violently
rampant	flourishing excessively; unrestrained
rampart	defensive wall round a fort, etc consisting of a wide bank of earth with a path for walking along the top
ramshackle	 adj. almost collapsing
ran	pt of run1
ranch	n. large farm, esp in the US or Canada, where cattle are bred; similar farm producing crops, fruit, chickens, etc
rancher	n. person who owns, manages or works on a ranch
rancid	tasting or smelling bad because of staleness
rancor	 bitter deep-seated ill will
rancorous	feeling bitterness, spitefulness
random	 adj. done, chosen, etc without method or conscious choice; haphazard
randomize	to set up (a selection process, sample, etc.) in a deliberately random way in order to enhance the statistical validity of any results obtained
randomly	 adv: people randomly chosen, eg to carry out a survey
randomness	 [ random: ] lacking any definite plan or prearranged order; haphazard
randy	esp Brit) sexually excited; lustful
range	connected line or row of mountains, hills, etc
ranger	(Brit) keeper of a royal park, estate, etc who enforces forest laws
rank	position in a scale of responsibility, quality, social status, etc
rankle	 v. cause lasting bitterness or resentment
ransack	~ sth search (a place) thoroughly
ransom	release of a captive in return for money, etc demanded by his captors
rant	speak loudly, violently or theatrically
rap	quick sharp blow or knock
rapacious	greedy, esp for money; grasping
rapacity	 n. greed; desire to rob and plunder ;
rapid	moving or acting with great speed; fast
rapidity	 n.
rapidly	adv.
rapids	 n. swift current in a river caused by a steep downward slope in the river bed
rapine	 n. act of seizing property by force; plundering
rapport	n. ~ sympathetic and harmonious relationship
rapprochement	n. ~ (with sb/between A and B) renewal of friendly relations, esp between countries
rapscallion	n. rascal; rogue ;
rapt	 adj. ~ so intent or absorbed that one is unaware of other things; spellbound
raptorial	Seizing and devouring living prey.
rapture	intense delight
rapturous	adj. causing or expressing rapture
rare	not often happening or seen, etc; unusual
rarefaction	rarefication
rarefied	less dense than is normal; thin
rarefy	 v. (cause sth to) become thinner or less dense
rarely	 adv. not often; seldom
raring	~ to do sth so eager or willing to do sth that restraint is difficult
rarity	rareness
rascal	dishonest person
rash	patch of tiny red spots on the skin
rashness	 n.
rasp	coarse file with rows of sharp points on its surface
raspy	adj. rough; grating
rat	rodent that looks like, but is larger than, a mouse .
ratchet	device consisting of a toothed wheel or bar with a catch that fits between the teeth allowing movement in one direction only
rate	standard of reckoning obtained by expressing the quantity or amount of one thing in relation to another
rather	to a certain extent; fairly ; . (used before adjs and advs )
ratification	 n. ratifying or being ratified
ratify	 v. make (an agreement, a treaty, etc) officially valid, usu by signing it
rating	 n. classification or ranking of sb/sth according to quality, etc
ratio	n. relation between two amounts determined by the number of times one contains the other
ratiocination	n. process of logical and methodical reasoning
ration	fixed quantity, esp an official allowance of food, etc in times of shortage
rational	able to reason
rationale	n. fundamental reason for or logical basis of sth
rationalism	n. practiceof testing all religious belief and knowledge by reason and logic
rationalist	adj. n person practising rationalism
rationalistic	adj. of rationalism or rationalists
rationality	n. quality of being rational; reasonableness ;
rationalization	[ rationalize: ] to justify (one's actions, esp. discreditable actions, or beliefs) with plausible reasons, esp. after the event
rationalize	to provide plausible but untrue reasons for conduct
rattle	make short sharp sounds quickly, one after the other; (cause sth to) shake while making such sounds
rattlesnake	n. poisonous American snake that makes a rattling noise with its tail when alarmed or threatened
rattling	 adj. fast or brisk
raucous	adj. loud and hoarse; harsh-sounding
raunchy	adj. having or showing sexual desire; coarse or obscene
ravage	damage badly; destroy
rave	~ talk wildly or furiously as if in a fever or mad
ravel	~ (sth) (up) (cause threads or fibres to) tangle and become knotted
raven	n. large bird like a crow with glossy black feathers and a hoarse cry
ravening	 adj. hungrily seeking prey or food
ravenous	very hungry
ravine	 n. deep narrow steep-sided valley between mountains
ravish	fill with delight; enchant
ravishing	adj. delightful or enchanting; lovely
ravishment	to give great delight to; enrapture
raw	uncooked
rawhide	n. untanned leather
ray	narrow beam or line of light or other radiation, eg energy or heat
raze	 to destroy to the ground:DEMOLISH
razor	n. instrument with a sharp blade, or with electrically-driven revolving cutters, used for shaving hair from the skin
razzle	 n. be/go (out) on the razzle (infml ) be/go out to celebrate and enjoy oneself; be/go on a spree ;
razzle-dazzle	razzmatazz
reach	~ for sth; ~ out stretch out (one's hand) in order to touch, grasp or take sth
reachable	adj. that can be reached
react	~ behave differently or change as a result of sth; respond
reactant	 n. substance taking part in a chemical reaction
reaction	~ response to a situation, an act, an influence, etc
reactionary	n, adj opposing (esp political) progress or reform
reactivate	 v. bring back into operation; make active again
reactive	 readily partaking in chemical reactions
reactiveness	 [ reactive: ] readily partaking in chemical reactions
reactor	apparatus for the controlled production of nuclear energy
read	 v. (used in the simple tenses or with can/be able , can/be able) (be able to) understand the meaning of (written or printed words or symbols)
readable	that can be read easily or enjoyably
reader	person who reads, esp one who is fond of reading
readily	without hesitation; willingly
reading	action of a person who reads
ready	~ (for sth/to do sth) in a fit state for immediate use or action; fully prepared or completed
reaffirm	 v. state positively again; affirm again
reagent	n. substance used to cause a chemical reaction, esp to detect another substance
real	existing as a thing or occurring as a fact; not imagined or supposed
realign	bring into a new or former arrangement; align again
realism	attitudes and behaviour based on the acceptance of facts and the rejection of sentiment and illusion
realist	writer, painter, etc whose work shows realism(
realistic	showing realism(
reality	quality of being real or of resembling an original
realization	[ realize: ] to become conscious or aware of (something)
realization,realisation 
	realization,realisation 
realize	to become conscious or aware of (something)
really	in reality; truly
realm	kingdom
ream	516
reap	cut and gather as harvest
reaper	person who reaps
reappear	 v. appear again
reappearance	 n.
rear	the back part
rearrange	place in a different way or order
reason	 n. ~ (to do sth); ~ (why.../that...) (fact put forward as or serving as the) cause of, motive for or justification for sth
reasonable	(of people) ready to use or listen to reason; sensible
reasonableness	 n.
reasonably	in a reasonable way
reasoning	n. act or process of using one's reason1(
reassurance	reassuring or being reassured
reassure	 v. ~ sb remove sb's fears or doubts; make sb confident again
reassuring	 adj. that reassures
rebarbative	serving or tending to repel
rebate	 n. amount by which a debt, tax, etc can be reduced; discount or partial refund
rebel	n. person who fights against, or refuses to serve, the established government
rebellion	open (esp armed) resistance to the established government; resistance to authority or control
rebellious	 adj. showing a desire to rebel; not easily controlled
rebelliousness	 n.
rebellow	(archaic or literary)
rebound	~ spring or bounce back after hitting sth
rebuff	 n. unkind or contemptuous refusal or rejection (of an offer, request, friendly gesture, etc); snub
rebuild	v. build or put (sth) together again
rebuke	 v. ~ sb express sharp or severe disapproval to sb, esp officially; reprove sb
rebus	n. puzzle in which a word or phrase has to be guessed from pictures or diagrams representing the letters or syllables in it
rebut	;
rebuttal	act of rebutting or being rebutted
recalcitrance	n. quality of being recalcitrant
recalcitrant	 adj. resisting authority or discipline; disobedient
recall	~ sb (from...) (to...) order sb to return (from a place)
recant	 v. formally reject (a former opinion, belief, etc) as being wrong
recantation	recanting
recapitulate	 v. state again or summarize the main points of
recapture	capture again
recast	~ sth (as sth) put (sth written or spoken) into a new form
recede	~ (seem to) move back from a previous position or away from an observer
receipt	~ (fml ) act of receiving or being received
receivable	 adj. (commerce ) (of bills, accounts, etc) for which money has not yet been received
receive	~ sth (from sb/sth) get, accept or take (sth sent, given, etc)
receiver	person who receives sth
recent	 adj. not long ago or before
recently	 adv. not long ago or before; lately
receptacle	 n. container,space, etc for placing or storing sth
reception	action of receiving or being received
receptive	adj. ~ able or quick to receive new ideas, suggestions, etc
receptiveness	[ receptive: ] able to apprehend quickly
receptivity	[ receptive: ] able to apprehend quickly
receptor	a sensory nerve ending that changes specific stimuli into nerve impulses
recess	(US also vacation) period of time when work or business is stopped, esp in Parliament, the lawcourts, etc
recession	temporary decline in economic activity or prosperity
recessionary	of a slowing of economic activity
recessive	(of characteristics inherited from a parent, such as the colour of the eyes or of the hair) not appearing in a child but remaining hidden because of the presence of stronger characteristics ,
recherche	(usuderog ) much too studied or refined; affected
recidivism	especially :relapse into criminal behavior
recidivist	 n. person who commitscrimes repeatedly and seems unable to be cured of criminal tendencies; persistent offender ;
recipe	~ set of instructions for preparing a food dish, including the ingredients required
recipient	n. ~ person who receives sth
reciprocal	 adj. given and received in return; mutual
reciprocally	 adv.
reciprocate	give and receive (sth) in return; exchange (sth) mutually ;
reciprocated	 [ reciprocate: ] to give or feel in return
reciprocation	a mutual exchange
reciprocity	n. principleor practice of mutual exchange, esp of making concessions or granting privileges, etc in return for concessions or privileges received
recital	public performance of music, dance, etc by a soloist or a small group
recitalist	 [ recital: ] a musical performance by a soloist or soloists
recitation	public delivery of passages of prose or poetry learnt by heart
recite	~ (to sb) say (a poem, passage, etc) aloud from memory, esp to an audience
reck	 To have a care or thought for.
reckless	 adj. ~ (of people or their actions) not thinking of the consequences or of danger; rash or impulsive
recklessness	 n.
reckon	~ sb/sth among sth; ~ sb/sth as sth (not used in the continuous tenses ) be of the opinion or consider that sb/sth is as specified
reckoning	calculation; estimation
reclaim	~ sth recover possession of sth
recline	lean or lie back in a horizontal or near-horizontal position
recluse	n. person who lives alone and avoids other people
reclusive	[ recluse: ] a person who lives in seclusion
recognition	recognizing or being recognized
recognizable	 [ recognize: ] to perceive (a person, creature, or thing) to be the same as or belong to the same class as something previously seen or known; know again
recognizance	 An acknowledgment entered into before a court with condition to do some particular act.
recognize	To recall the identity of (a person or thing).
recognize,recognise 
	recognize,recognise 
recognized	 [ recognize: ] to perceive (a person, creature, or thing) to be the same as or belong to the same class as something previously seen or known; know again
recoil	~ ~ (at sth) draw oneself back in fear, disgust, etc
recollect	v. succeed in calling back to the mind; remember
recollection	ability to recollect; action of recollecting
recombinant	produced by the combining of genetic material from more than one origin
recommend	~ sb/sth (to sb) (for sth/as sth) praise sth as suitable for a purpose; praise sb as suitable for a post, etc; speak favourably of sb/sth ;
recommendable	adj. a highly recommendable film, restaurant, camping site
recommendation	action of recommending
recompense	 v. ~ sb (fml ) reward sb (for his work, efforts, etc); compensate sb (for his losses, etc)
recompose	to restore to composure or calmness
reconcile	to make consistent or congruous
reconciled	to make (oneself or another) no longer opposed; cause to acquiesce in something unpleasant
reconciliation	reconciling or being reconciled
recondite	(of subjects) little known or understood; obscure
recondition	v. repair and put it into good condition again; overhaul or restore
reconnaissance	 n. exploration or a survey of an area, esp for military purposes
reconnoiter	To make a preliminary examination of for military, surveying, or geological purposes.
reconnoitre	v. explore or survey
reconsider	 v. consider again, esp to change an earlier opinion,decision, etc
reconstitute	restore to its original state, eg by adding water
reconstruct	construct or build again, eg after damage ,
reconstruction	reconstructing or being reconstructed
record	~ permanent account, esp in writing, of facts, events, etc
recorder	apparatus for recording sound or pictures, or both
record-holder	n. person holding a sports record
recording	action of preserving sound or images on magnetic tape, etc
recount	v. ~ sth give a detailed account of sth; tell about sth
recoup	 v. ~ sb/oneself for sth get back give sb/oneself back (what has been spent, lost, etc)
recourse	possible source of help, eg in an emergency
recover	~ sth find again (sth stolen, lost, etc); regain possession of sth
recoverable	adj. that can be recovered
recovery	~ recovering (recover 1) or being recovered
recreant	 n, adj (person who is) cowardly, unfaithful or treacherous
recreate	 To refresh after labor.
recreation	 n. refreshing or entertaining oneself after work; relaxation
recreational	 adj. of or for recreation
recriminate	v. ~ (fml ) accuse or blame (sb by whom one has been accused or blamed)
recrimination	n. accusation in response to an accusation from sb else; countercharge
recriminatory	adj. of recrimination
recrudescence	n. new outburst; recurrence
recrudescent	 Becoming raw or sore again.
recruit	person who has just joined the armed forces or police and is not yet trained
rectangle	n. four-sided geometricfigure with four right angles, esp one with unequal adjacent sides ; .
rectangular	adj. having the shape of a rectangle
rectification	rectifying or being rectified
rectify	put (sth) right; correct
rectitude	n. moral correctness or straightforwardness; honesty
recumbent	adj. (esp of a person) lying down; reclining
recuperate	~ (fml ) recover from illness, exhaustion or loss, etc
recuperation	 n. recuperating
recuperative	 adj. of or aiding recuperation
recur	happen again; happen repeatedly
recurrence	 n. recurring; repetition
recurrent	adj. recurring often or regularly
recurring	[ recur: ] to happen again, esp. at regular intervals
recusant	 n. Roman Catholic who refused to attend Anglican services as required by law
recycle	v. treat (used material) so that it can be used again
red	of the colour of fresh blood or a similar colour
reddish	adj. rather red
redeem	~ sth (from sb/sth) buy back sth by paying the required sum; recover sth
redeemable	 adj. that can be redeemed
redemption	redeeming or being redeemed
redemptive	 adj. of redemption; serving to redeem
redirect	 v. = readdress
redistribute	 v. giveout in a different way
redistribution	 n.
redolence	Smelling sweet and agreeable.
redolent	smelling strongly of sth
redoubtable	adj. to be feared and respected; formidable
redound	v. redound on sb/sth (fml ) come back on sb/sth; rebound or recoil on sb/sth
redress	put right (a wrong); compensate for (sth)
reduce	~ sth (to/by sb) make sth smaller in size, number, degree, price, etc
reducible	adj. ~ that can be reduced
reduction	reducing or being reduced
reductive	[ reduction: ] the act or process or an instance of reducing
redundancy	state of being redundant(2)
redundant	not needed; superfluous; unnecessary
reed	(tall hollow stem of) any of various types of grass-like plants growing near water
reediness	n. state of being reedy
reedy	having many reeds (reed 1)
reef	 n. part of the top or bottom of a sail that can be rolled or folded to reduce the area exposed to the wind
reek	strong bad smell
reel	cylinder, roller or similarly shaped object on which thread, wire, fishing line, photographic film, magnetic tape, etc is wound
refectory	,
refer	~ to sb/sth mention or speak of sb/sth; allude to sb/sth
referable	adj. ~ that can be referred (refer 3) to sb/sth
referee	.
reference	~ act of referring (refer 1a) to sb/sth
referendum	 n. referring of a political issue to a general vote by all the people of a country for a decision; vote thus taken
referent	 the object or idea to which a word or phrase refers
refine	remove impurities from (sth); purify
refined	cultured or elegant; free from what is coarse or vulgar
refinement	refining or being refined
refinery	 n. factory, etc where sth is refined
reflect	to undergo or cause to undergo a process in which light, other electromagnetic radiation, sound, particles, etc., are thrown back after impinging on a surface
reflectance	reflection factor
reflection	 The throwing off or back of light, heat, sound, or any form of energy that travels in waves.
reflective	thoughtful
reflectivity	a measure of the ability of a surface to reflect radiation, equal to the reflectance of a layer of material sufficiently thick for the reflectance not to depend on the thickness
reflector	thing that reflects heat, light or sound
reflexion	= reflection
reform	 v. become or make better by removing or putting right faults, errors, etc
reformed	 of or designating a Protestant Church, esp. the Calvinist as distinct from the Lutheran
reformer	 n. person who brings about or advocates reform
refract	v. bend where it enters eg water or glass at an oblique angle from a medium of different density
refracted	[ refract: ] to cause to undergo refraction
refraction	 n. refracting or being refracted .
refractory	difficult to control or discipline; wilful or unmanageable
refrain	lines of a song or poem which are repeated, esp at the end of each verse
refresh	v. give new strength or vigour to (sb/sth); restore or revive
refreshing	giving new strength or vigour; restoring or reviving
refreshment	refreshing or being refreshed
refrigerator	 n. cabinet or room in which food is kept cold
refuge	~ (place giving) shelter or protection from danger, trouble, pursuit, etc
refugee	n. person who has been forced to leave his country, home, etc and seek refuge, esp from political or religious persecution
refulgence	 the quality of being bright and sending out rays of light
refulgent	adj. gloriously bright; shining ;
refurbish	v. make clean or bright again; redecorate
refusal	refusing or being refused
refuse	 n. waste or worthless material; rubbish
refutable	adj. that can be refuted
refutation	refuting or being refuted
refute	 v. prove to be wrong
regain	get back again after losing it; recover
regal	adj. of, like or fit for a king or queen; royal
regale	 v. ~ sb with sth amuse or entertain sb (with stories, jokes, etc)
regality	 Royalty.
regard	look steadily at (sb/sth) in the specified way
regarding	prep with reference to (sb/sth); concerning
regardless	 adv. paying no attention to sb/sth
regardless of	prep. paying no attention to (sb/sth);heedless of
regatta	n. sporting event at which races are held between rowing-boats or yachts
regenerate	give fresh strength or life to (sb/sth); restore
regeneration	 spiritual rebirth
regenerative	 adj. enjoy the regenerative powers of sea air
regent	 n. person appointed to rule a country while the monarch is too young, old, ill, etc, or is absent
regicide	crime of killing a king
regime	method or system of government
regimen	n. set of rules about diet, exercise, etc aimed at improving sb's health and physical well-being
regiment	(artillery and armour) unit divided into batteries or squadrons
regimental	 adj. of a regiment
regimentation	the imposition of order or discipline
region	part of a surface or bodyor space with or without definite boundaries or characteristicfeatures
register	official list or record of names, items, attendances, etc
regnant	Exercising royal authority in one's own right.
regress	v. ~ (fml ) return to an earlier or less advanced form or state
regression	 n. regressing
regressive	 adj. regressing or tending to regress
regret	 n. feeling of sadness at the loss of sb/sth; feeling of annoyance, disappointment or repentance
regretful	adj. feeling or expressing regret
regrettable	adj. that is or should be regretted
regular	happening, coming or done repeatedly at times or places which are the same distance apart
regularity	 n. state of being regular
regularize	 to make regular; cause to conform
regularly	at regular intervals or times
regulate	control or direct by means of rules and restrictions
regulated	[ regulate: ] to adjust (the amount of heat, sound, etc., of something) as required; control
regulation	regulating or being regulated; control
regurgitate	bring (swallowed food) up into the mouth again
rehabilitate	restore to a normal life by retraining, medical treatment, etc, esp after imprisonment or illness
rehabilitation	 n. rehabilitating or being rehabilitated
rehabilitative	 [ rehabilitate: ] to help (a person who has acquired a disability or addiction or who has just been released from prison) to readapt to society or a new job, as by vocational guidance, retraining, or therapy
rehash	 v. ~ sth (infml derog , ) put (ideas, material, etc) into a new form with no great change or improvement
rehearsal	rehearsing
rehearse	practise(a play, piece of music, etc) for public performance
reign	n. rule of a king or queen
reimburse	v. ~ sth ~ sb (for sth) (usu fml ) pay back to sb (money that he has spent, lost, etc); refund sth
reimbursement	n. repayment
rein	long narrow strap fastened to the bit of a bridle and used to guide and control a horse
reincarnate	incarnate anew ; having a new body
reincarnation	n. belief that the soul enters a new (human or animal) body after death
reinforce	make stronger by adding material, etc
reinforcement	reinforcing or being reinforced
reinstate	v. ~ sb restore sb to a previous (esp important) position
reiterate	v. say or do (sth) again or repeatedly
reiteration	n. reiterating or being reiterated
reject	refuse to accept
rejection	n. rejecting or being rejected
rejoice	~ (fml ) feel or show great joy ; rejoice over a victor
rejoicing	happiness; joy ;
rejoin	join again; be reunited with
rejoinder	n. what is said in reply; retort
rejuvenate	 v. restore youthful appearance, strength, etc to
rejuvenated	[ rejuvenate: ] to give new youth, restored vitality, or youthful appearance to
rejuvenation	 becoming young in nature or appearence
rejuvenescence	 A renewal of youth.
rekindle	 v. light again
relapse	v. ~ fall back into a previous condition or a worse state after making an improvement
relate	~ sth (fml ) give an account of (facts, experiences, etc); tell (a story, etc)
related	connected or associated with sb/sth
relation	~ ~ (to sth) way in which one person or thing is related to another; similarity, contrast or connection between people, things or events
relationship	 n. ~ (of A to/with B) state of being connected
relative	~ considered in relation or proportion to sb/sth else; comparative
relatively	in relation or proportion to sb/sth else; comparatively
relativity	state of being relative
relax	(make sth) become less tight, stiff, etc
relaxation	relaxing or being relaxed
relaxed	adj. not feeling or showing worry, anxiety, tenseness, etc
relay	fresh set of people or animals taking the place of others who have finished a period of work
release	~ sb/sth (from sth) allow (a person or an animal) to go; set free or liberate sb/sth ;
relegate	 banish; consign to inferior position
relegation	 n.
relent	decide to be less strict, determined or harsh
relenting	[ relent: ] to change one's mind about some decided course, esp. a harsh one; become more mild or amenable
relentless	not relenting; strict or harsh
relentlessly	 adv.
relevance	the relation of something to the matter at hand
relevant	 adj. ~ (to sth/sb)connected with what is being discussed, what is happening,what is being done, etc
reliability	n. state or quality of being reliable
reliable	 adj. consistently good inquality or performance, and so deserving trust; dependable
reliably	 adv: I am reliably informed that he's about to resign
reliance	 n. ~ on sb/sth confidence or trust in sb/sth; dependence on sb/sth
reliant	adj. ~ on sb/sth having reliance on sb/sth; dependent on sb/sth ;
relic	trace or feature surviving from a past age and serving to remind people of it
relict	 an organism or species surviving as a remnant of an otherwise extinct flora or fauna in an environment much changed from that in which it originated ; geological feature that is a remnant of a pre-existing formation after other parts have disappeared
relief	~ lessening or removing of pain, distress, anxiety, etc
relieve	lessen or remove
relieved	 adj. feeling or showing relief
religion	belief in the existence of a god or gods, who has/have created the universe and given man a spiritual nature which continues to exist after the death of the body
religious	of religion
relinquish	give up or cease to practise, feel, etc (sth); abandon
relinquishment	 [ relinquish: ] to give up (a task, struggle, etc.); abandon
reliquary	n. containerfor a relic or relics of a holy person
relish	~ great enjoyment of food, etc; zest
relocate	 v. ~ (from...) (to...) move (sb/sth) to, or build (sth) in, another place
reluctance	 Unwillingness.
reluctant	adj. ~ unwilling and therefore slow to co-operate, agree, etc
reluctantly	[ reluctant: ] not eager; unwilling; disinclined
rely	~ on/upon sb/sth (to do sth) count or depend on sb/sth
remain	be left or still present after other parts have been removed or used or dealt with
remainder	remaining people, things or time; the rest
remains	what is left after other parts have been removed or used or dealt with
remand	 v. send back (from a lawcourt) into custody, esp while further evidence is being gathered
remark	~ on/upon sth/sb say or write by way of comment; observe
remarkable	 adj. ~ worth noticing or unusual; exceptional
remediable	 adj. that can be remedied
remedial	providing, or intended to provide, a remedy or cure
remedy	(fml ) treatment, medicine, etc that cures or relieves a disease or pain
remember	have or keep (sth) in the memory; recall to one's memory
remembrance	remembering or being remembered; memory
remind	inform of a fact or tell (sb) to do sth he may have forgotten
reminder	thing which reminds sb of a fact or person
reminisce	v. ~ think or talk about past events and experiences, usu with enjoyment
reminiscence	recalling of past events and experiences; reminiscing ;
reminiscent	~ of sb/sth reminding one of or suggesting sb/sth
remiss	 adj. ~ (fml ) careless of one's duty; lax
remission	pardoning or forgiveness of sins by God
remit	refrain from inflicting (a punishment, etc)
remittance	remitting of money
remittent	adj. becoming less severe at intervals
remnant	small remaining quantity or part or number of things or people
remodel	to alter the structure of:REMAKE
remonstrance	 n. remonstrating; protest ;
remonstrant	Having the character of a reproof.
remonstrate	v. ~ with sb; ~ against sth make a protest or complaint about sb/sth
remorse	~ sense of deep and bitter regret for having done sth wrong
remorseful	 adj. filled with remorse(1)
remote	~ (from sth) far away from other communities, houses, etc; isolated
remoteness	 n.
removal	removing or being removed
remove	~ sth/sb (from sth) take sth/sb away from one place to another
remunerate	 v. ~ sb (fml ) pay or reward sb for work or services
remuneration	 n. payment; reward ;
remunerative	 adj. profitable
renaissance	the Renaissance revival of art and literature in the 14th, 15th and 16th centuries, based on classical forms 14 15 16
renal	adj. of, in or near the kidneys
renascence	 (n.) a new life; rebirth
renascent	adj. becoming active again; reviving
rend	tear (sth) apart forcibly; split
render	~ sth (for sth); ~ sth (to sb) give sth in return or exchange, or as sth which is due
rendering	performing a piece of music or a dramatic role
rendezvous	~ (with sb) (place chosen for a) meeting at an agreed time
rendition	n. way in which a dramatic role or piece of music, etc is performed; rendering
renegade	person that deserts a cause, political party, religious group, etc
renege	~ (on sth) fail to keep a promise, one's word, etc
renew	replace with sth new of the same kind
renewal	renewing or being renewed
renin	a proteolytic enzyme secreted by the kidneys, which plays an important part in the maintenance of blood pressure
renounce	agree to give up ownership or possession of (sth), esp formally
renouncement	 n. = renunciation 1
renovate	 v. restore to good condition
renovated	[ renovate: ] to restore (something) to good condition
renovation	renovating or being renovated
renown	 n. fame or distinction
renowned	 adj. ~ famous; celebrated
rent	regular payment made for the use of land, premises, a telephone, machinery, etc; sum paid in this way
rentability	[ rent: ] a payment made periodically by a tenant to a landlord or owner for the occupation or use of land, buildings, or other property, such as a telephone
rentable	 adj. that can be rented or that yields a rent
rental	amount of rent paid or received
renunciation	(formal declaration of) giving sth/sb up; renouncing
reorganize	 To change to a more satisfactory form of organization.
repaid	 pt, pp of repay
repair	restore to good condition
reparable	adj. (of a loss, etc) that can be made good ,
reparation	~ (for sth) compensating for damage; making amends for loss
repartee	sharp clever retorts
repast	 meal
repatriate	 v. ~ sb send or bring sb back to his own country
repay	~ sth (to sb) pay (money) back; refund sth
repayable	adj. that can or must be repaid
repayment	repaying
repeal	 v. withdraw officially; revoke ;
repeat	say or write (sth) again once or more than once; reiterate
repeatable	 adj. that can berepeated
repeatedly	 [ repeated: ] adj. done, made, or said again and again; continual or incessant
repel	drive (sb/sth) back or away; repulse
repellent	~ arousing distaste or disgust; repulsive
repent	~ (fml esp religion , ) feel regret or sorrow about (sth one has done or failed to do)
repentance	 n. ~ regret or sorrow for wrongdoing
repentant	adj. ~ feeling or showing repentance
repercussion	indirect effect or result of an event, etc; consequence
repertoire	 n. all the plays, songs, pieces, etc which a company, actor, musician, etc knows and is prepared to perform
repertory	performance of various plays for short periods by one company
repetition	repeating or being repeated
repetitive	 adj. characterized by or given to unnecessary repetition; boring
repine	 v. ~ (fml ) feel or show discontent; fret
replace	put back in its place
replaceable	adj. that can be replaced
replacement	replacing or being replaced
replenish	~ sth fill sth again
replete	well-fed or full; gorged
repletion	n. state of being replete(1)
replica	n. exact copy, esp one made by an artist of one of his own pictures, etc
replicate	v. be or make a copy of (sth); reproduce
reply	v. ~ (to sb/sth); ~ (with sth) say or make an answer, in speech or writing; respond
report	~ (to sb/sth); ~ sth (to sb) give a spoken or written account of (sth heard, seen, done, studied, etc); describe
reportage	n. reporting news for the media
reporter	 n. person who reports news for the media
reportorial	repor'torially adve
repose	rest; lie
reposeful	adj. calm; quiet ;
repository	place where things are stored or may be found, esp a warehouse or museum
repossess	v. regain possessionof
reprehend	v. criticize or rebuke (sb or sb's behaviour)
reprehensible	adjdeserving to be reprehended
reprehension	 Expression of blame.
represent	make an image of or show in a picture, sculptureor play; depict
representation	act of representing or state of being represented
representative	~ serving to show or portray a classor group
repress	restrain or suppress (an impulse); check
repressed	adj. suffering from suppression of the emotions
repression	repressing or being repressed
repressive	 adj. tending to repress; harsh or severe
reprieve	postpone or cancel a punishment for (sb), esp the death sentence
reprimand	v. ~ sb rebuke sb (for a fault, etc), esp officially
reprint	v. print (a book, etc) again, with few or no changes ,
reprisal	 n. returning an injury, esp political or military, done to oneself; retaliation
reprise	recurrent action; musical repetition; repeat performance
reproach	 v. ~ sb/oneself (for sth) criticize sb/oneself, esp for failing to do sth
reproachful	adj. expressing reproach
reprobate	adj. n immoral or unprincipled (person)
reprobation	severe disapproval
reproduce	make a copy of
reproducible	 adj. that can be reproduced
reproduction	reproducing or being reproduced
reproductive	 adj. of or for reproduction of offspring
reproof	n. (remark, etc expressing) blame or disapproval
reprove	v. ~ sb (fml ) blame or rebuke sb; censure
reptile	n. any of the class ofcold-blooded, egg-laying animals including lizards, tortoises,crocodiles, snakes, etc with relatively short legs or no legs at all ,
reptilian	adj. n reptile
republic	 n. system of government in which supreme power is held not by a monarch but by the (elected representatives of the) people, with an elected President
republican	 adj. of or like a republic; supporting the principles of a republic
repudiate	refuse to have any more to do with (sb); disown ;
repudiation	n.
repugnance	 n. ~ strong aversion or disgust
repugnant	adj. ~ (fml ) causing a feeling of strong opposition or dislike; abhorrent
repulse	drive back (an attacker or an attack) by fighting; repel ;
repulsion	~ feeling of loathing or aversion; disgust
repulsive	causing a feeling of loathing or aversion; disgusting
reputable	adj. having a good reputation; respected or trustworthy
reputation	 n. ~ what is generally said or believed about the abilities, qualities, etc of sb/sth
repute	 v. (idm ) be reputed as/to be sb/sth be generally said or considered to be sb/sth
reputed	adj. generally said or considered to be sth/sb
request	~ act of asking for sth in speech or writing, esp politely
requiem	n. (also requiem `mass) special mass for the repose of the soul of a dead person
require	depend on (sb/sth) for success, fulfilment, etc; need
requirement	thing depended on or needed
requisite	adj. required by circumstances or necessary for success
requisition	~ (for sth) official, usu written, demand for (esp) the use of property or materials by an army in wartime or by certain people in an emergency
requital	repayment
requite	~ sth (with sth) give sth in return for sth else; repay sth
rescind	v. cancel or repeal (a law, contract, etc); annul
rescission	 abrogation; annulment
rescript	 a reply by a pope to an inquiry concerning a point of law or morality ; a legally binding command or decision entered on the court record (as if issued by a court or judge)
rescue	~ sb/sth (from sth/sb) save or bring away sb/sth from danger, captivity, etc
research	 n. ~ (on sb) careful study or investigation, esp in order to discover new facts or information
researchable	 [ research: ] systematic investigation to establish facts or principles or to collect information on a subject
researcher	 n.
resemblance	n. ~ ~ (between A and B) (instance of) likeness or similarity
resemble	 to possess some similarity to; be like
resent	 v. feel bitter, indignant or angry about
resentful	adj. feeling or showing resentment
resentment	 n. resenting sb/sth
reservation	reserved seat or accommodation, etc; record of this
reserve	put aside or keep sth for a later occasion or special use
reserved	 adj. slow to show feelings or express opinions
reservoir	natural or artificial lake used as a source or store of water for a town, etc ,
resettle	 v. help (esp refugees) to settle again in a new country
reshuffle	interchange the posts or responsibilities of
reside	~ (in/at...) have one's home (in a certain place); live
residence	house, esp a large or impressive one
residency	a variant of: residence
resident	person who lives or has a home in a place, not a visitor
residual	 adj. left over as a residue(1); remaining
residue	what remains after a part or quantity is taken or used
resign	~ give up (one's job, position, etc)
resignation	~ (instance of) resigning
resigned	having or showing patient acceptance of sth unwelcome or unpleasant
resignedly	 adv. in a resigned manner
resilience	quality of being springy
resilient	springing back to its original form after being bent, stretched, crushed, etc; springy ,
resin	sticky substance that oozes esp from fir and pine trees and is used in making varnish, medicine, etc
resinous	 adj. of or like resin
resist	use force in order to prevent sth happening or being successful; oppose
resistance	~ (action of) using force to oppose sth/sb
resistant	adj. ~ offering resistance
resistive	Having or exercising the power of resistance.
resistless	 Powerless.
resolute	 adj. ~ having or showing great determination or firmness
resoluteness	 n.
resolution	quality of being resolute or firm; determination
resolvable	 adj. that can be solved or settled
resolve	v. ~ on/upon/against sth/doing sth decide firmly; determine
resonance	n. quality of being resonant
resonant	continuing to echo; resounding
resonate	 v. produce or show resonance
resort	~ to sth make use of sth for help; adopt sth as an expedient
resound	~ (through/throughout sth) (of a sound, voice, etc) fill a place with sound; produce echoes
resource	supply of raw materials, etc which bring a country, person, etc wealth
resourceful	adj. clever at finding ways of doing things
respect	~ admiration felt or shown for a person or thing that has good qualities or achievements; regard
respectability	 n. quality of being socially respectable; decency ;
respectable	of acceptable social position; decent and proper in appearance or behaviour
respectably	adv. in a respectable manner
respected	[ respect: ] an attitude of deference, admiration, or esteem; regard
respecter	n. be no/not be any respecter of `persons treat everyone in the same way, without being influenced by their importance, wealth, etc
respectful	 adj. ~ ~ (of sth) feeling or showing respect
respective	 adj. of or for or belonging to each as an individual
respectively	 adv. separately or in turn, in the order mentioned
respiration	(single act of) breathing air
respiratory	adj. of or for breathing air
respire	breathe air
respite	~ interval of rest or relief
resplendence	 brilliant radiant beauty
resplendent	adj. ~ (fml ) brilliant with colour or decorations; splendid
respond	~ (with sth) give a verbal or written answer
respondent	 n. defendant, esp in a divorce case
response	answer
responsibility	~ being responsible or accountable
responsible	adj. ~ (for doing sth) legally or morally obliged, eg to take care of sb/sth or to carry out a duty, and liable to be blamed if one fails
responsibly	adv. in a rational or trustworthy way
responsive	~ responding warmly or favourably; sympathetic
responsiveness	 n.
rest	~ (from sth) be still or asleep; stop moving or working, esp in order to regain one's strength
restate	v. state again or in a different way
restatement	n.
restaurant	 n. public place where meals can be bought and eaten
restitution	(fml ) restoration of a thing to its proper owner or original state
restive	restless or uneasy
restiveness	n.
restless	constantly moving
restlessness	 n.
restoration	~ return of sth lost, etc to its owner
restorative	adj. tending to restore health and strength
restore	~ sth (fml ) give back (sth lost, etc) to its owner
restored	 [ restore: ] to return (something, esp. a work of art or building) to an original or former condition
restrain	 v. ~ sb/sthhold back sb/sth from movementor action; keep sb/sth under control or in check
restrained	 adj. keeping one's feelings, language or behaviour in check; controlled
restraint	restraining or being restrained
restrict	~ sb/sth (to sth) put a limit on sb/sth
restricted	having certain limitations
restriction	restricting or being restricted
restrictive	restricting
result	~ (of sth) effect or outcome (of sth)
resultant	adj. happening as a result or consequence
resume	begin (sth) again or continue (sth) after stoppingfor a time
resumed	[ resume: ] to begin again or go on with (something adjourned or interrupted)
resumption	 n. (instance of) resuming (resume 1)
resurge	(rare)
resurgence	 a rising again into life, activity, or prominence:RENASCENCE
resurgent	adj. rising or reviving after destruction, defeat, disappearance, etc
resurrect	bring (sb) back to life again
resurrection	the Resurrection the rising of Jesus from the tomb
resuscitate	v. bring (sb/sth) back to consciousness
resuscitation	coming back to consciousness
retail	 n. selling of goods, which are usu not for resale, in small quantities to the general public
retailer	 n. tradesman who sells by retail
retain	keep (sth) in one's possession or use
retainer	fee paid to sb in advance for services as and when one may need them
retaliate	v. ~ repay an injury, insult, etc with a similar one
retaliation	n. ~ ~ (for sth) retaliating
retaliatory	adj. done or meant as retaliation
retard	make (sth) slow or late
retardant	a substance that reduces the rate of a chemical reaction
retarded	 adj. backward in physical or mental development
retch	v. make the sounds and movements of vomiting, esp involuntarily, but without bringing anything up from the stomach
retell	 v. ~ sth (to sb) tell (a story, etc) again, in a different way or in a different language
retention	n. possession or use of sth
retentive	having the ability to remember facts, impressions, etc ,
reticence	reserve; uncommunicativeness; inclination to be silent
reticent	 adj. ~ not revealing one's thoughts or feelings easily; reserved
reticulation	 n. net-like pattern or structure
retinue	n. group of attendants accompanying an important person
retire	~ (from sth) give up one's regular work, esp because of age
retired	adj. having retired from work
retirement	retiring or being retired from work
retiring	 adj. avoiding society; shy
retool	 to replace, re-equip, or rearrange the tools in (a factory, etc.)
retort	 v. make a quick, witty or angry reply, esp to an accusation or challenge
retouch	v. improve or alter by removing flaws or making minor changes
retrace	go back over or repeat exactly
retract	withdraw (a statement, charge, etc)
retractability	 [ retract: ] vt. to draw in (a part or appendage)
retractable	adj. that can be drawn in
retraction	 n. retracting
retreat	withdraw after being defeated or when faced with danger or difficulty
retrench	make economies or reduce expenses
retribution	n. ~ (fml ) deserved punishment or compensation for injury, etc
retributive	adj. happening or inflicted as retribution
retrievable	adj. that can be retrieved
retrieval	n. retrieving or being retrieved
retrieve	~ sth (esp fml ) get possession of sth again
retroactive	adj. effective from a past date
retrograde	going backwards
retrogress	go backwards
retrogression	n. return to a less advanced state; decline ;
retrospect	 n. in retrospect looking back on a past event or situation
retrospective	looking back on the past
return	~ (to...) (from...)come or go back to a place
reunite	v. ~ (with sb/sth) (cause sb/sth to) come together again
revamp	 v. renew (sth), esp superficially; improve the appearance of
reveal	~ sth make (facts, etc) known
revealing	making known
revel	(dated or joc ) make merry; celebrate noisily
revelation	making known sth that was secret or hidden; revealing
revelry	n. noisy celebrations; revels
revenge	deliberate punishment or injury inflicted in return for what one has suffered
revenue	income, esp the total annual income of the State from taxes, etc
reverberant	adj. (fml )
reverberate	v. ~ echo or resound repeatedly
revere	~ sb/sth (for sth) (fml ) feel deep respect or (esp religious) veneration for sb/sth
reverence	~ feeling of deep respect or (esp religious) veneration
reverend	deserving to be treated with respect, esp because of age, etc ,
reverent	 adj. feeling or showing reverence
reverie	n. idle and pleasant thoughts
reversal	making sth the opposite of what it was; turning around
reverse	~ contrary or opposite to what is expected
reversed	 [ reverse: ] to turn or set in an opposite direction, order, or position
reversion	reverting
revert	~ to sth return to (a former state or condition)
review	re-examinationor reconsideration
reviewer	 n. person who writes reviews of books, etc
revile	 v. criticize (sb/sth), in angry and abusive language ,
revisal	Revision.
revise	re-examine (sth), esp in order to correct or improve it
revision	 n. ~ (for sth) revising or being revised
revitalize	 restore strength ; give new life or vigor to
revival	coming or bringing back to health, strength or consciousness; recovery
revive	come or bring back to health, strength or consciousness
revocable	capable of being revoked or annulled
revocation	 n. (instance of) revoking or being revoked
revoke	withdraw or cancel (a decree, permit, etc)
revolt	~ rise in rebellion (against authority)
revolting	adj. causing disgust or horror
revolution	overthrow of a system of government, esp by force
revolutionary	of political revolution
revolve	~ (on sth) (of a planet, etc) move in a circular orbit
revue	n. theatrical entertainment consisting of a mixture of dialogue, song and dance, esp of a topical and satirical nature
revulsion	~ feeling of disgust or horror
reward	recompense for work, merit or services
rewarding	yielding or likely to yield a reward:VALUABLE, SATISFYING
rhapsodize	 recite a rhapsody ; say (something) with great enthusiasm
rhapsody	(often in titles ) romantic composition in irregular form
rhetoric	using language impressively or persuasively, esp in public speaking
rhetorical	of the art of rhetoric
rhetorician	A showy writer or speaker.
rhinestone	 n. imitation diamond
rhinoceros	large thick-skinned heavily-built animal of Africa and S Asia, with either one or two horns on its nose
rhubarb	fleshy reddish leaf-stalks that are cooked and eaten like fruit
rhyme	sameness of sound between words or syllables, esp the endings of lines of verse, as in day, away; visit, is it; puff, rough , dayaway visitis it puffrough
rhythm	pattern produced by emphasis and duration of notes in music or by stressed and unstressed syllables in words
rhythmic	 / 5rITmIkl; `rITmIkl/ adj having rhythm
rib	any one of the 12 pairs of curved bones extending from the backbone round the chest in humans
ribald	 adj. humorous in a vulgar, obscene or disrespectful way
ribaldry	 n. ribald language or behaviour
ribbon	silk, nylon, etc woven in a narrow strip and used for tying sth or for ornament
rice	type of grass grown on wet land in hot countries, esp in E Asia, producing seeds that are cooked and used as food
rich	having much money or property; wealthy
rickety	adj. weak or shaky, esp in the joints; likely to fall or collapse
rid	~ sb/sth of sb/sth make sb/sth free from (sb/sth unpleasant or unwanted)
riddance	 n. good riddance (to sb/sth) (said to express relief, etc at being free of an unwanted or unpleasant person or thing )
ridden	 pp of ride
riddle	puzzling question, statement or description, esp one intended to test the cleverness of those wishing to solve it
ride	(period of) being carried on or in sth, esp as a passenger
rider	person who rides a horse, bicycle, etc
ridge	raised line where two sloping surfaces meet; narrow raised strip
ridicule	 n. making sb/sth appear foolish or absurd; scorn
ridiculous	deserving to be laughed at; absurd
riding	sport or pastime of going about on a horse
rife	 adj. (esp of bad things) widespread; common
riffle	shuffle by holding part of the pack in each hand and releasing cards alternately so that they form one pack again
riffraff	 People regarded as disreputable or worthless
rifle	n. type of gun with a long barrel which has spiral grooves inside, usu fired from the shoulder
rifling	n. these grooves
rift	split, crack, break, etc
rig	~ sth (with sth) fit (a ship or boat) with masts, spars, ropes, sails, etc
right	morally good; required by law or duty
righteous	doing what is morally right
righteousness	n.
rightful	 adj. just, proper or legal
rigid	stiff; not bending or yielding
rigidity	 n.
rigmarole	(unnecessarily) complicated procedure
rigor	severity
rigorous	severe; strict
rile	 v. annoy (sb); irritate
rim	edge or border of sth that is circular
rime	 n. frost
rimless	adj. having lenses which have no frames round them
rind	 n. hard outer skin or covering on some fruits and some types of cheese, bacon, etc
ring	small circular band of precious metal, often set with a gem or gems, worn esp on the finger
ringing	[ ring: ] a circular band usually of a precious metal, esp. gold, often set with gems and worn upon the finger as an adornment or as a token of engagement or marriage
ringlet	n. long curl of hair hanging down from sb's head
rinse	wash lightly
riot	wild or violent disturbance by a crowd of people
riotous	disorderly; unruly
rip	divide or make a hole in (sth) by pulling sharply
riparian	 adj. of or inhabiting the banks of a river, lake, etc
ripe	ready to be gathered and used, esp for eating
ripen	v. become ripe
ripple	small wave or series of waves
rise	upward movement or progress
risible	adj. fit to be laughed at; ridiculous
rising	 n. armed rebellion; revolt
risk	~ (instance of the) possibility of meeting danger or suffering harm, loss, etc
risky	adj. full of danger; full of potential for failure, loss, etc
risque	 adj. slightly indecent
rite	 n. religious or some other solemn ceremony
ritual	 the prescribed or established form of a religious or other ceremony
ritzy	adj. (dated infml , ) luxurious; elegant ;
rival	n. ~ person or thing competing with another
rivalry	n. being rivals; competition
rive	 to wrench open or tear apart or to pieces:REND
riven	adj. split; torn violently
river	large natural stream ofwater flowing in a channel
rivet	n. metal pin or bolt for fastening twopieces of metal together, its headless end being hammered or pressed flat to prevent slipping
riveting	 adj. that holds the attention; enthralling
rivulet	n. small stream
road	way between places, esp one with a prepared surface for the use of motor vehicles
roadway	the surface of a road
roam	walk or travel without any definite aim or destination
roan	 n, adj with a coat of mixed colour, esp brown with white or grey hairs in it
roar	 n. long loud deep sound made by a lion
roast	cook (meat, etc) in an oven, or over or in front of a fire
rob	v. ~ sb/sth (of sth) take property from (a person or place) illegally
robber	 n. person who robs; thief ;
robbery	stealing; theft
robe	long loose outer garment
robot	machine that (resembles and) can perform the actionsof a person, operated automatically or by remote control
robust	vigorous; healthy and strong
rock	(usu solid) part of the earth's crust
rocket	firework or similar device that shoots into the air when lit and then explodes
rocky	of or like rock
rococo	18
rod	thin straight piece of wood or metal
rode	 pt of ride2
rodent	 n. type of small animal that gnaws things with its strong front teeth, eg a rat, squirrel or beaver
rodeo	n. rounding up of cattle on a ranch, for branding, etc
roe	n. eggs in a female fish's ovary (hard roe) or a male fish's milt (soft roe)
rogue	dishonest or unprincipled man
roguish	adj. mischievous in a playful way
roil	 to stir up:DISTURB, DISORDER
roister	to engage in noisy revelry:CAROUSE
role	actor's part in a play
roll	cylinder made by turning flexible material over and over on itself without folding it
roller	cylinder used for flattening or spreading things
rollick	to behave in a carefree, frolicsome, or boisterous manner
rollicking	 adj. noisy and jolly
rolling	having gentle rising and falling slopes; undulating
roman	of ancient or modern Rome
romance	adj. of those languages which are descended from Latin, eg French, Italian, Spanish ,
romantic	appealing to the emotions by its imaginative, heroic or picturesque quality
romp	play about together in a lively way, running, jumping, etc
rondo	n. piece of music in which the main theme returns a number of times ()()
rood	 n. crucifix, esp one erected on the middle of a rood-screen
roof	structure covering or forming the top of a building, vehicle, etc
rookery	colony of rooks
rookie	 n. inexperienced newcomer to a team, an organization, etc
room	part of a building enclosed by walls or partitions, and with a floor and ceiling
roost	place where birds perch or settle for sleep
rooster	n. = cock 1
root	part of a plant that keeps it firmly in the soil and absorbs water and food from the soil
rootless	 adj. having no root or roots
rope	thick cord or wire made by twisting finer cords or wires together
rose	 pt of rise2
roseate	adj. deep pink
roster	 n. (esp in the army, etc) list of names showing duties to be performed and the times at which those named are to perform them
rostrum	n. raised platform from which public speeches are made
rosy	of the colour of red roses; deep pink
rot	v. decay naturally through the action of bacteria, fungi, etc
rotary	 adj. (of motion) moving round a central point; circular
rotate	move in circles round a central point
rotation	rotating or being rotated
rote	 n. by `rote by heart; from memory, without thinking of the meaning
rotten	decayed; having gone bad
rotund	 adj. (of a person) rounded; plump; fat
rotunda	n. type of round building or hall, esp one with a domed roof
rotundity	n. state of being rotund
roue	 n. dissolute or lecherous man, esp an elderly one
rouge	reddish cosmetic for colouring the cheeks
rough	having an uneven or irregular surface; not level or smooth
roughen	v. become rough
roughly	in a rough manner
roughness	n. quality or state of being rough
round	shaped like a circle or a ball
roundabout	 adj. not using the shortest or most direct route, form of words, etc
rouse	~ sb (from/out of sth) cause sb to wake
rousing	adj. vigorous; giving encouragement
rout	utter defeat
route	n. way taken or planned to get from one place to another
routine	fixed and regular way of doing things
rove	(esp rhet ) wander without intending to reach a particular destination; roam
row	number of people or things arranged in a line
rowdy	adj. (derog ) noisy; disorderly
rower	n. person who rows a rowing-boat
royal	of a king or queen
royally	adv. in a splendid manner
royalty	royal person or people
rub	~ (sth) (with sth) (cause sth to) press against (a surface) with a to-and-fro sliding movement
rubber	tough elastic substance made from the milky juice of certain tropical plants, or synthetically
rubbery	adj. like rubber in consistency or texture
rubbish	waste or worthless material
rubbishy	 adj. worthless
rubble	 n. bits of broken stone, rock or bricks
rubicund	 adj. (of a person's complexion) red; ruddy
rubric	 n. words put as a heading, esp to show or explain how sth should be done, etc
ruby	type of red jewel
ruck	(Brit) (in Rugby football) loose scrum with the ball on the ground
rucksack	.
ruckus	esp US) noisy disturbance; uproar
rudder	 n. broad flat piece of wood or metal hinged vertically at the stern of a boat or ship, used for steering .
ruddy	(approv ) (of a person's face) having a fresh healthy colour
rude	(of a person or his behaviour) showing no respect or consideration; impolite
rudely	impolitely
rudeness	 n.
rudiment	rudiments ~s basic or elementary principles (of a subject)
rudimentary	existing in an imperfect or undeveloped form
rudiments	the first principles or elementary stages of a subject
rue	n. type of evergreen shrub with bitter leaves formerly used in medicine
rueful	 adj. showing or feeling good-humoured regret
ruff	ring of differently coloured or marked feathers or fur round the neck of a bird or animal
ruffian	n. violent lawless man
ruffle	~ sth disturb the smoothness or evenness of sth
rug	thick floor-mat carpet
rugged	rough; uneven; rocky
ruin	severe damage or destruction
ruinous	adj. bringing ruin
rule	statement of what can, should or must be done in certain circumstances or when playing a game
ruler	person who rules or governs
rumble	 v. make a deep heavy continuous sound
ruminant	 n, adj that chews the cud, eg a cow
ruminate	~ think deeply; meditate; ponder
rumination	 n.
ruminative	 adj. inclined to meditate; thoughtful
rummage	v. ~ (for sth); ~ (about/around) turn things over or disarrange them while searching for sth
rumor	information, often a mixture of truth and untruth, passed around verbally
rumour	 n. information spread by being talked about but not certainly true
rumple	 v. make creased or untidy; crumple
rumpled	[ rumple: ] to make or become wrinkled, crumpled, ruffled, or dishevelled
rumpling	 [ rumple: ] to make or become wrinkled, crumpled, ruffled, or dishevelled
rumpus	 n. disturbance; noise; uproar
run	move at a speed faster than a walk, never having both or all the feet on the ground at the same time
run-down	act of running down (an industry, a company, etc); reduction of the size of an industry, etc
rune	any of the letters in an ancient Germanic alphabet used by the Scandinavians and Anglo-Saxons for carving on wood or in stone
rung	cross-piece forming a step in a ladder
runic	adj. of runes; written in or inscribed with runes
runner	person or animal that runs; one taking part in a race
rupture	(instance of) breaking apart or bursting
rural	adj. of, in or suggesting the countryside
ruse	 n. deceitful way of doing sth or getting sth; trick
rush	go or come with great speed
rushy	adj. full of rushes
Russian	adj. of Russia, its culture, its language or its people
rust	reddish-brown coating formed on iron or steel by the action of water and air
rustic	 adj. typical of the country or country people
rusticate	send (a student) away from university temporarily, as a punishment
rusticity	n. being typical of the country in appearance or character
rustle	make a dry light sound, esp by friction or rubbing together
rustler	n. cattle or horse thief
rustling	sound made by sth that rustles
rusty	affected with rust
rut	deep track made by a wheel or wheels in soft ground; furrow
ruth	 Sorrow for another's misery.
ruthless	having or showing no pity or compassion; cruel
ruthlessness	 n.
s	Saint
sabbatical	given at intervals to academics for travel, study, etc
saber	a stout single-edged cavalry sword, having a curved blade
sable	small Arctic mammal, valued for its dark fur
sabotage	 n. damage done secretly to prevent an enemy, a competitor, etc succeeding, esp by destroying his weapons or equipment and spoiling his plans
saboteur	 n. person who commits sabotage
sabre	heavy cavalry sword with a curved blade
sac	n. bag-like part of an animal or plant
saccharin	n. very sweet substance used as a substitute for sugar
saccharine	 adj. very sweet; too sweet
sacerdotal	of a priest or priests
sachet	sealed plastic or paper pack containing a small amount of a product
sack	any large bag of strong material used for storing and carrying eg cement, coal, flour, potatoes
sackful	n. quantity held by a sack
sacrament	ritual act in the Roman Catholic, Anglican and other Christian Churches through which those who take part believe they receive a special grace from God
sacred	connected with or dedicated to God or a god; connected with religion
sacrifice	~ offering of sth valuable, often a slaughtered animal, to a god
sacrificial	adj. of or like a sacrifice
sacrilege	n. treating a sacred thing or place with disrespect
sacrilegious	 desecrating; profane
sacrosanct	 adj. considered too important to be changed, argued about, etc
sad	showing or causing sorrow; unhappy
sadden	 v. become sad
saddle	 n. seat, often of leather, for a rider on a horse, donkey, etc or on a bicycle or motor cycle
sadism	 n. enjoyment of watching or inflicting cruelty
sadist	 person who practises sadism
sadistic	 adj. of or showing sadism
sadly	in a sad manner
sadness	being sad
safari	hunting expedition or overland journey, esp in E or Central Africa
safe	 adj. ~ (from sth/sb) protected from danger and harm; secure
safeguard	n. ~ thing that serves as a protection from harm, risk or danger
safely	 [ safe: ] affording security or protection from harm
safety	being safe; not being dangerous or in danger
saffron	n. bright orange strands obtained from the flowers of the autumn crocus, used in cooking
sag	sink or curve down in the middle under weight or pressure
saga	long story of heroic deeds, esp of Icelandic or Norwegian heroes ,
sagacious	adj. showing wisdom and good judgement
sagacity	 n. quality of being sagacious; wisdom and good judgement
sage	 n. very wise man
saguaro	sahuaro
said	 pt, pp of say
sail	(often in compounds ) sheet of canvas spread to catch the wind and drive a ship or boat along
sailor	member of a ship's crew, esp one below the rank of officer; seaman ;
saint	) person who has been declared by the Christian Church to have deserved veneration through holy living, performing miracles, etc
saintly	adj. of or like a saint; very holy or good
sake	 n. for God's, goodness', Heaven's, pity's, etc sake (used as an interjection before or after a command or request, or to express irritation , )
salaam	Muslim greeting used in the East
salacious	 ,
salacity	 n. (fml )
salad	(dish of) chopped, usu raw, vegetables such as lettuce, tomatoes, cucumber, often seasoned with oil, vinegar, etc
salaried	 adj. receiving a salary; paid for by means of a salary
salary	 n. fixed regular payment to employees doing other than manual or mechanical work
sale	selling or being sold
salesclerk	 n. = shop-assistant (shop)
salesman	 `saleswoman, `saleslady, `salesperson ns person whose job it is to sell goods, eg in a shop or in people's homes
salesmanship	 n. skill in selling goods
salience	 The condition of standing out distinctly.
salient	adj. most noticeable or important; main
saliferous	 adj. (esp. of rock strata) containing or producing salt
saline	 adj. containing salt; salty
salinity	 n. the high salinity of sea water
saliva	 n. liquid produced in the mouth that helps one chew and digest food; spittle ;
sallow	 adj. (of a person's skin or complexion) yellowish
sally	sudden attack, esp by troops surrounded by the enemy
salmon	large fish with pinkish flesh, sometimes fished for with rod and line as a sport
salmonella	 n. type of bacteria causing food poisoning
salt	common white substance obtained from mines, present in sea water (from which it is obtained by evaporation), used esp for flavouring and preserving food; sodium chloride
salty	containing or tasting of salt
salubrious	 adj. (esp of the climate) health-giving
salutary	 adj. having a good effect
salutation	greeting or respect
salutatory	 The opening oration at the commencement in American colleges.
salute	action performed to show honour, respect or welcome to sb
salvage	rescue of a damaged ship or its cargo; rescue of property from damage caused by fire, floods, etc
salvation	saving of a person's soul from sin and its consequences; state of being saved in this way
salve	oily substance used on wounds, sores or burns
salver	 n. tray on which letters, drinks, etc are placed for handing to people
salvo	firing of several guns at the same time, esp as a salute
same	the ~ sb/sth (also sometimes preceded by this/that/these/those this/that/these/those) exactly the one (or ones) referred to or mentioned; not different; identical
sample	one of a number of things, or part of a whole, that can be looked at to see what the rest is like; specimen
sampler	n. piece of cloth embroidered to show skill in needlework and often displayed on a wall
sampling	 the process of selecting a random sample
sanatorium	 n. clinic where patients suffering or recovering from a long illness are treated
sanctify	make (sb/sth) holy
sanctimonious	adj. showing that one feels morally better than other people
sanction	permission or approval for an action, a change, etc
sanctity	 n. holiness; sacredness
sanctuary	n. sacred place, eg a church, temple or mosque ,
sanctum	holy place
sand	very fine fragments of rock that has been worn down, found on beaches, in river-beds, deserts, etc
sandal	 n. type of open shoe consisting of a sole held on to the foot by straps or cords
sandwich	 n. two or more slices of bread with meat, cheese, etc between
sandy	consisting of, containing, or covered with sand
sane	having a healthy mind; not mad
sang	 pt of sing
sanguinary	with much bloodshed; bloody
sanguine	~ (about sth/that...) hopeful; optimistic
sanguineous	Consisting of blood.
sanitary	free from dirt or substances that may cause disease; hygienic
sanitation	 n. systems thatprotect people's health, esp those that dispose efficiently of sewage
sanity	state of being sane; health of mind
sank	 pt of sink1
sap	liquid in a plant that carries food to all its parts
sapid	Affecting the sense of taste.
sapience	 Deep wisdom or knowledge.
sapient	adj. wise
sapless	[ sap: ] a solution of mineral salts, sugars, etc., that circulates in a plant
sapling	n. young tree
saponaceous	Having the nature or quality of soap.
sapphire	clear, bright blue jewel
sarcasm	n. bitter, esp ironic, remarks intended to wound sb's feelings
sarcastic	adj. of or using sarcasm
sarcophagus	n. stone coffin, esp one with carvings, etc, used in ancient times
sardine	young pilchard or a similar fish, usu tinned in oil or tomato sauce
sardonic	 adj. expressing scorn, usu in a grimly humorous way; mocking
sartorial	adj. of (usu men's) clothes or a way of dressing
sash	 n. long strip of cloth worn around the waist or over one shoulder as an ornament or as part of a uniform
sat	= Saturday
satanic	of or like Satan
satchel	n. small leather or canvas bag, usu carried over the shoulders and used for carrying school books, etc
sate	 satisfy to the full; cloy
satellite	natural body in space orbiting round a larger body, esp a planet
satiate	v. provide (sb) with so much of sth that he wants no more
satiated	 to satisfy (as a need or desire) fully or to excess
satiety	n. condition or feeling of being satiated
satiny	 adj. having the appearance or texture of satin
satire	attacking foolish or wicked behaviour by making fun of it, often by using sarcasm and parody
satiric	Resembling poetry, in which vice, incapacity ,or corruption is held up to ridicule.
satirical	adj. containing or using satire
satirize	 To treat with sarcasm or derisive wit.
satisfaction	feeling of contentment felt when one has or achieves what one needs or desires
satisfactorily	 adv. in a satisfactory manner
satisfactory	 adj. good enough for a purpose
satisfy	give (sb) what he wants, demands or needs; make contented
saturate	~ sth make sth very wet; soak sth
saturated	very wet; soaked
saturation	 n. saturating or being saturated ; . adj carried out in such a way that the whole of an area is affected
Saturday	 n. the seventh and last day of the week, next after Friday
Saturn	 n. the planet sixth in order from the sun, large and with rings round it
saturnalia	 n. (rhet ) wild revelry
saturnine	adj. (of a person or his appearance) gloomy
satyr	god of the woods, half man and half goat
sauce	liquid or semi-liquid mixture served with food to add flavour
saucer	small shallow curved dish on which a cup stands
sauerkraut	 n. chopped pickled cabbage
saunter	v. walk in a leisurely way; stroll
sausage	mixture of minced meat and flavouring, etc in a thin tube-like casing (either cooked and eaten whole or served cold and in slices)
savage	 adj. wild and fierce
savagery	 n. savage behaviour
savanna	A flat grassland of tropical or subtropical regions.
savannah	 n. treeless grassy plain in tropical and subtropical regions
savant	 n. person of great learning
save	~ sb/sth make or keep sb/sth safe (from harm, loss, etc)
saving	 adj. a saving `grace thing that makes up for the poor qualities in sb/sth
savor	enjoy; have a distinctive flavor, smell, or quality
savory	herb of the mint family used in cooking
savour	 n. taste or flavour
savoury	having a salty or sharp flavour, not a sweet one
savvy	n. common sense; understanding
saw	pt of see1
sawdust	n. tiny pieces of wood falling as powder from wood as it is sawn
say	~ power to decide
saying	 n. well-known phrase, proverb, etc; remark often made
scab	dry crust formed over a wound or sore as it heals
scabbard	.
scabrous	(of animals, plants, etc) having a rough surface ,
scad	 a great quantity
scads	n. ~s (US infml ) large numbers or amounts
scaffold	frame made of long metal tubes put up next to a building so that builders, painters, etc can work on it, or to support a platform
scaffolding	n. scaffold(1), eg poles and planks
scald	burn with boiling liquid or steam
scalding	 adj. hot enough to scald
scale	any of the thin overlapping plates of hard material covering the skin of many fish and reptiles
scalp	skin of the head excluding the face
scalpel	n. small light knife used by surgeons
scaly	adj. covered with scale or scales; coming off in scales
scamp	n. mischievous child
scamper	v. run quickly and often playfully as children and some small animals do
scan	Tn] look at every part of (sth) carefully; examine (sth) with great attention
scandal	(act, behaviour, etc that causes) public feelings of outrage or indignation
scandalous	disgraceful; shocking
scant	adj. hardly enough; not very much (used esp with the ns shown)
scantily	 adv: scantily dressed
scanty	 adj. small in size or amount; hardly large enough
scapegoat	n. person who is blamed or punished for the wrongdoing of sb else
scar	mark left on the skin by a wound, sore, etc
scarce	not easily obtained and much less than is needed
scarcely	only just; hardly
scarcity	 n. shortage
scare	scarify)frighten (sb)
scared	 adj. ~ (of doing sth/to do sth) frightened
scarf	n. piece of material worn for ornament or warmth round the neck or (by women) over the shoulders or hair
scarify	loosen the surface of (soil, etc) by using a tool or machine with prongs
scarlet	adj. n bright red
scarp	n. steep slope; escarpment ;
scathe	 (rare)
scathing	severe; harsh
scatter	move, usu quickly, in different directions
scavenge	~ (of an animal or a bird) search for decaying flesh as food; use decaying flesh for food
scavenger	n. animal, bird or person that scavenges
scenario	written outline of a film, play, etc with details of the scenes and plot
scene	place of an actual or imagined event
scenery	general natural features of an area, eg mountains, valleys, rivers, forests
scenic	having or showing beautiful natural scenery
scent	characteristic smell of sth, esp a pleasant one
scepter	= sceptre
sceptic	person who doubts that a claim, statement, etc is true
sceptical	adj. ~ unwilling to believe sth; often doubting that claims, statements, etc are true
sceptre	n. staff or rod carried by a ruler as a sign of royal power, eg at a coronation ceremony ,
schedule	programme of work to be done or of planned events
schematic	adj. in the form of a diagram or chart
schematize	 to form into or arrange in a scheme
scheme	~ plan for doing or organizing sth
schism	 n. strong disagreement, esp in a religious organization over doctrine, in which one group stops recognizing the authority of the other
schismatic	 adj. of or causing schism . n. person who takes part in a schism
schizophrenia	n. mental illness that causes the sufferer to act irrationally, have delusions, withdraw from social relationships, etc
schizophrenic	of or suffering from schizophrenia
scholar	student who has been awarded money after a competitive exam, etc, to be used to finance his education
scholarly	showing the learning, care and attention typical of a scholar
scholarship	grant of money to a scholar(1)
scholastic	of schools and education
school	institution for educating children
schooner	type of sailing-ship with two or more masts and sails set lengthways rather than from side to side
science	organized knowledge, esp when obtained by observation and testing of facts, about the physical world, natural laws and society; study leading to such knowledge
science fiction	fiction often based on future or recent scientific discoveries, and dealing with imaginary worlds, space travel, or life on other planets
scientific	of, used in or involved in science
scientist	n. expert in or student of one or more of the natural or physical sciences
scintilla	n. not a scintilla of sth (fml ) not the slightest amount of sth
scintillate	give off sparks; sparkle
scintillating	adj. brilliant and witty
scion	young member of a family, esp a noble one ,
scission	 a division or split in a group or unionschism
scissor	a cutting implement consisting of two blades joined by a swivel pin that allows the cutting edges to be opened and closed
scissors	cutting instrument with two blades, pivoted in the middle, which cut as they come together
scoff	v. I, Ipr] ~ speak contemptuously (about or to sb/sth); jeer or mock
scold	v. ~ sb express anger, criticism, etc, esp to a child; rebuke sb
scoop	,
scooter	light motor cycle, usu with small wheels, a low seat and a metal shield protecting the driver's legs .
scope	~ opportunity to do or achieve sth
scorch	burn or discolour (a surface) by dry heat
scorching	adj. very hot
score	number of points, goals, etc made by a player or team in a game, or gained in a competition, etc
scorn	~ strong contempt
scornful	 adj. showing or feeling scorn
scorpion	 n. small creature of the spider group with lobster-like claws and a poisonous sting in its long jointed tail
scotch	of Scottish people
Scotch whisky	type of whisky distilled in Scotland
scoundrel	n. person who has no moral principles and no conscience; villain ;
scour	~ sth make the dirty surface of sth clean or bright by rubbing it with sth rough
scourge	whip for flogging people
scout	person, ship or aircraft sent out to get information about the enemy's position, strength, etc
scowl	n. bad-tempered or angry look on the face
scraggy	adj. (derog ) thin and bony
scram	v. (esp in commands and in the infinitive ) (sl ) go away quickly
scramble	climb or crawl quickly, usu over rough ground or with difficulty; clamber
scrambler	n. device for scrambling telephone conversations, etc
scrap	C] small, usu unwanted, piece; fragment
scrape	~ sth (down/out/off) make (a surface, etc) clean, level or smooth by drawing a sharp tool or sth rough across it
scraping	 n. small bit produced by scraping
scrappy	made up of bits and pieces; not well organized; not complete
scraps	 [ scrap: ] a small piece of something larger; fragment
scratch	I, Ipr, Tn] make marks on or in (a surface) with a sharp tool, nails, claws, etc; make a shallow wound in (the skin) in this way
scrawl	write or draw in an untidy, careless or unskilful way
scream	~ (out) (at sb); ~ (with sth) give a long piercing cry of fear, pain or excitement; cry (sth) in this way
scree	n. small loose stones, which slide when trodden on
screech	I, Ipr, Ip, Tn, Tn.pr, Tn.p] ~ (out) (at sb) give a harsh high-pitched cry; call out (sth) in such a way
screed	long speech or piece of writing
screen	upright, fixed or movable, sometimes folding framework used for dividing a room, concealing sth, protecting sb from excessive heat, light, etc
screw	metal pin with a slot or cross cut into its head, and a spiral groove around its shaft, that can be turned and forced into wood, metal, etc so as to fasten and hold things together
screwdriver	n. tool with a handle and a blade that fits into a slot, etc in the head of a screw to turn it
scribble	write very fast or carelessly
scribe	person who made copies of writings before printing was invented
scrimmage	confused struggle or fight; tussle
scrimp	 v. scrimp and save manage to live on very little money, esp so as to afford sth
script	text of a play, film, broadcast, talk, etc
scriptural	 adj. of or based on the Bible
scripture	Scripture the Bible
scroll	roll of parchment or paper for writing on
scrooge	n. person who is miserly and mean-spirited
scrub	n. underdeveloped trees or shrubs
scruffy	adj. (infml ) dirty and untidy
scrumptious	adj. (esp of food) delicious
scrunch	n, v = crunch
scruple	feeling that prevents one from doing or allowing sth that one thinks may be wrong
scrupulous	extremely careful and thorough; paying great attention to details
scrupulously	 adv: scrupulously exact, careful, honest, clean
scrutable	capable of being deciphered:COMPREHENSIBLE
scrutinize	 examine closely and critically
scrutiny	 n. careful and thorough examination
scud	 v. (esp of ships, etc or clouds) move straight, fast and smoothly
scuff	mark or scrape (a surface) with one's shoes
scuffle	n. confused struggle between people who are close together
scullion	 n. boy or man who did simple tasks, eg washing-up, in a kitchen
sculpt	 = sculpture v
sculptor	 n. person who makes sculptures
sculpture	art of making figures, objects, etc by carving wood or stone, shaping clay, making metal casts, etc
scum	layer of froth on the surface of a boiling liquid; layer of dirt on a pond or other area of still water ;
scummy	 adj. of, like or containing scum(1)
scurrilous	 adj. abusive and insulting, esp in a crude or obscene way
scurry	 v. run with short quick steps
scurvy	 n. disease of the blood caused by a lack of vitamin C in the diet
scutter	to move with a clattering, scurrying sound
scuttle	v. run with short quick steps
scythe	 n. tool with a slightly curved blade on a long pole, sometimes with two handles, used for cutting long grass, corn, etc
sea	(also seas ) the salt water that covers most of the earth's surface and encloses its continents and islands; any part of this, in contrast to areas of fresh water and dry land
seafaring	adj. n work or travel on the sea
seal	 n. animal with flippers that lives near and in the sea and eats fish
seam	line along which two edges, esp of cloth, are joined or sewn together
seaman	sailor, esp one in a navy below the rank of an officer .
seamless	 adj. without a seam(1a)
seamstress	 rarely sempstress
seamy	adj. unattractive andsordid
seance	 n. meeting, esp of spiritualists, at which people try to talk with the spirits of the dead
seaport	n. town with a harbour used by seagoing ships
sear	scorch or burn (a surface)
search	~ (for sb/sth); ~ through sth (for sth) empty the pockets, etc of (sb) and examine his body and clothes to see if anything is concealed there; look at, examine or go over (a thing or place) carefully in order to find sb/sth
searing	[ sear: ] to scorch or burn the surface of
seascape	 n. picture of a scene at sea
seasick	adj. feeling sick or wanting to vomit as the result of the motion of a ship, etc
seaside	n. land, place, town, etc by the sea, esp a holiday resort
season	part of the year distinguished according to its particular type of weather, esp one of the four traditional periods into which the year is divided, ie spring, summer, autumn and winter
seasonable	suitable for the time of year
seasonal	 adj. happening during a particular season; varying with the seasons
seasoned	 [ season: ] one of the four equal periods into which the year is divided by the equinoxes and solstices, resulting from the apparent movement of the sun north and south of the equator during the course of the earth's orbit around it.
seasoning	n. herb, spice, etc used to season food
seat	thing made or used for sitting on, eg a chair, bench or box
sebaceous	adj. producing an oily or greasy substance
secant	 Cutting, especially into two parts.
secateurs	n. clippers used for pruning bushes, etc
secede	 v. ~ (fml ) withdraw (from membership of an organization, state, etc)
secession	n. ~ (fml ) (instance of) seceding
seclude	v. ~ sb/oneself (fml ) keep sb/oneself apart (from others)
secluded	 adj. (of a place) not visited or seen by many people
seclusion	n. secluding or being secluded
seclusive	tending to seclude
second	 det 1
secondary	~ coming after sth that is first or primary; of less importance, value, etc than what is primary
second-hand	previously owned by sb else
secondly	 adverb(ial)
second-rate	adj. of poor quality; not very good
secrecy	keeping secrets; ability or tendency to keep secrets; state of being secret
secret	~ kept or intended to be kept from the knowledge or view of others; not known by others
secretarial	adj. of secretaries
secretary	employee in an office, usu working for another person, dealing with letters, typing, filing, etc and making appointments and arrangements
secrete	(of an organ) produce (a substance, usu liquid) either as waste material or for use within the body
secretin	 a peptic hormone secreted by the mucosae of the duodenum and jejunum when food passes from the stomach
secretion	secreting (secrete 1) or being secreted
secretive	adj. liking to keep things secret or to hide one's thoughts, feelings, etc
secretiveness	n.
sect	 n. group of people who share (esp religious) beliefs or opinions which differ from those of most people
sectarian	of a sect or sects
sectarianism	 n. tendency to split up into sects; tendency to be sectarian(2)
section	any of the parts into which sth may be or has been divided
sector	part of a circle lying between two straight lines drawn from the centre to the circumference .
secular	not concerned with spiritual or religious affairs; worldly
secure	~ not feeling worry, doubt, etc
securities	 [ security: ] the state of being secure
security	freedom or protection from danger or worry
sedate	 adj. calm and dignified; composed
sedative	 n. drug or medicine that sedates
sedentary	done sitting down
sediment	matter that settles to the bottom of a liquid
sedimentation	n. process of depositing sediment
sedition	 n. words or actions intended to make people rebel against the authority of the State
seditious	adj. of, causing or spreading sedition
seduce	tempt to have sexual intercourse
seductive	adj. tending to seduce, charm or tempt sb; attractive
sedulity	 [ sedulous: ] sedulity 'sedulousness noun
sedulous	 adj. showing much hard work, steady effort or care
see	v. (not in the continuous tenses) become aware of (sb/sth) by using the eyes; perceive
seed	part of a plant from which a new plant of the same kind can grow
seedless	 adj. having no seeds
seedling	 n. young plant newly grown from a seed
seedy	shabby-looking; disreputable
seeing	 conj in view of the fact that; because
seek	 v. ~ (after/for sth) look (for sth); try to find or obtain (sth)
seem	 v. ~ (to be) sth; ~ like sth (not used in progressive tenses ) have or give the impression or appearance of being or doing sth; appear
seemingly	apparent but not actual or genuine
seemly	 / adj (dated or fml ) proper and suitable by the standards of polite society
seen	 pp of see1
seep	 v. ~ through into sth/out (of sth) (of liquids) flow slowly and in small quantities through a substance
seepage	process of seeping
seer	 A prophet.
seethe	bubble and froth as if boiling
segment	(geometry ) part of a circle cut off by a line
segregate	put sb/sth in a place away from the rest; isolate
segregated	 [ segregate: ] to set or be set apart from others or from the main group
seignior	 A title of honor or respectful address, equivalent to sir.
seine	net for catching fish
seismic	adj. of earthquakes
seismograph	n. instrument for detecting earthquakes and recording how strong they are and how long they last
seize	take hold of (sth), suddenly and violently; grab
seldom	 adv. not often; rarely
select	 v. ~ sb/sth choose sb/sth, esp as being the best or most suitable
selection	selecting or being selected
selective	using or based on selection
selectively	adv.
selectiveness	[ selective: ] of or characterized by selection
selectivity	quality of being selective
selector	person who selects
selenium	 n. non-metallic element whose power to conduct electric current increases as the light reaching it becomes more intense .
self	one's own nature, special qualities, etc; one's personality
self-assertion	 ,self-assertiveness ns
self-assurance	 n. = assurance1
self-assured	 adj. = assured (assure)
self-confident	 adj. having confidence in oneself, one's abilities, etc
self-control	 n. ability to control one's behaviour or not to show one's feelings
self-controlled	adj. showing self-control
self-determination n. right of a nation, people, etc to decide what form of government it will have or whether it will be independent of another country or not
	self-determination n. right of a nation, people, etc to decide what form of government it will have or whether it will be independent of another country or not
self-discipline	n. controlling one's own desires, feelings, etc, usu so as to improve oneself
self-effacing	adj. not trying to impress people; modest
self-evident	 adj. clear without any need for proof, explanation, or further evidence; obvious
self-explanatory adj. without any need for explanation; clear
	self-explanatory adj. without any need for explanation; clear
self-indulgence	n.
self-indulgent	 adj. allowing oneself to do or have what one enjoys, instead of controlling one's desires, etc
self-interest	n. one's own interests or personal advantage
selfish	adj. thinking first of one's own interests, needs, etc without concern for others; not sharing what one has with others; (of an action) done from selfish motives
selfless	 adj. thinking more of others' needs and welfare than of one's own; unselfish
selflessness	 n.
self-possession	n. calmness; composure
self-reliant	 adj. relying on one's own abilities and efforts; independent
self-respect	 n. feeling that one is behaving and thinking in ways that will not make one ashamed of oneself
self-respecting	adj. having self-respect
self-righteous	 adj. showing in a smug way that one believes that what one does, thinks, etc is right
self-righteousness n.
	self-righteousness n.
self-sacrifice	 n. giving up or willingness to give up things that one wants, in order to help others or for a good purpose
self-sufficient	adj. ~ able to fulfil one's own needs, without help from others
self-winding	 adj. winding itself automatically from the movements of the wearer's wrist
sell	~ (sth) (to sb) (at/for sth) give (goods, etc) to sb who becomes their owner after paying one money
seller	person who sells
sellotape	n. (also sticky tape) (usu transparent) cellulose or plastic sticky tape
semantic	 adj. of the meaning of words; of semantics
semaphore	n. system of sending signals by holding the arms or two flags in certain positions to indicate letters of the alphabet
semblance	n. ~ of sth appearance of being sth; likeness to sth
semester	 n. either of the two divisions of the academic year
semiannual	 Recurring at intervals of six months.
semicircle	 n. half of a circle or of its circumference; thing arranged like this
semicircular	 adj. having the shape of a semicircle
semicivilized	Half-civilized.
semiconductor	n. substance that conducts electricity in certain conditions, but not as well as metals
semiconscious	Partially conscious.
seminal	of seed or semen
seminar	n. small group of students at a university, etc meeting to discuss or study a particular topic with a teacher
seminary	college for training priests or rabbis
senate	upper house of the law-making assembly in some countries, eg France, the US and Australia
senator	n. member of the senate
send	 v. ~ sth/sb (to sb/sth) cause sth/sb to go or be taken without going oneself
senescence	 n. process of becoming old
senescent	adj. becoming old
seneschal	a steward of the household of a medieval prince or nobleman who took charge of domestic arrangements, etc.
senile	 adj. suffering from bodily or mental weakness because of old age
senility	 n. state of being senile
senior	~ older
sensation	feeling in one's body resulting from sth that happens or is done to it
sensational	causing a sensation(2)
sense	any of the five powers of the body by which a person, an animal, etc receives knowledge of things in the world around, ie sight, hearing, smell, taste and touch
senseless	pointless; foolish
sensibility	ability to receive and appreciate delicate impressions; sensitivity
sensible	(approv ) having or showing good sense(3); reasonable
sensibleness	 [ sensible: ] having or showing good sense or judgment
sensibly	 adv. in a sensibleway
sensitive	easily hurt or damaged
sensitivity	n. ~ quality or degree of being sensitive
sensitization	[ sensitize: ] to make or become sensitive
sensitize	to make or become sensitive
sensor	 n. device that detects light, heat, humidity, etc
sensorium	The sensory apparatus.
sensory	adj. of the senses or of sensation
sensual	= adj of, suggesting, enjoying or giving physical (often sexual) pleasure
sensuality	 n. love or enjoyment of physical pleasure
sensuous	 adj. affecting, noticed by or giving pleasure to the senses
sensuously	 adv: She swayed her hips sensuously as she danced
sent	 pt, pp of send
sentence	largest unit of grammar, usu containing a subject, a verb, an object, etc and expressing a statement, question or command
sententious	adj. expressing pompous moral judgements
sentience	Capacity for sensation or sense-perception.
sentient	 adj. capable of perceiving or feeling things
sentiment	tender feelings of pity, nostalgia, etc, which may be exaggerated or wrongly directed (contrasted esp with reason)
sentimental	of or concerning the emotions, rather than the reason
sentimentalism	 the state or quality of being sentimentalism
sentimentalist	 n. person who is sentimental(2b)
sentimentality	 n. quality of being too sentimental(2a)
sentimentalize	to make sentimental or behave sentimentally
sentinel	 n. sentry
sentry	 n. soldier posted outside a building, etc in order to watch or guard it
separable	adj. ~ that can be separated
separate	~ forming a unit by itself; existing apart
separated	adj. ~ no longer living together as a married couple (but not necessarily divorced)
separately	 adv. as separate people or things; not together
separation	~ separating; state of being separate
separatist	 A seceder.
sepsis	 n. infection of (part of) the body by bacteria
September	n. the ninth month of the year, next after August
septennial	 Recurring every seven years.
septic	 adj. caused by or causing infection with harmful bacteria
sepulcher	[ sepulchre: ] a burial vault, tomb, or grave
sepulchral	of a tomb or of burial
sepulchre	tomb, esp one cut in rock or built of stone
sequacious	 Ready to be led.
sequel	thing that happens after or as a result of an earlier event
sequela	A secondary consequence or result
sequence	set of events, numbers, actions, etc with each following the one before continuously or in a particular order
sequent	Following in the order of time.
sequential	 adj. following in order of time or place; forming a sequence ;
sequentially	 adj. files of correspondence arranged sequentially
sequester	~ sb/oneself (from sth) keep sb/oneself away or apart from other people; seclude
sequestrate	take temporary possession of (a debtor's property, funds, etc) until a debt has been paid or other claims met
sequoia	n. either of two types of large evergreen coniferous trees of California, the redwood or the giant sequoia ,
seraph	 n. (in the Bible) member of the highest order of angels
seraphic	like an angel in beauty or purity
sere	 being dried and withered
serenade	 n. song or tune sung or played at night, esp by a lover outside the window of the woman he loves
serendipity	n. making pleasant and unexpected discoveries entirely by chance
serene	 adj. calm and peaceful; tranquil
serenity	 the quality or state of being shining bright and steady
serf	person forced by a landowner to work on the land in a feudal system
serfdom	n. social and economic system under which land was cultivated by serfs
sergeant	non-commissioned army officer ranking above a corporal and below a warrant officer .
serial	of, in or forming a series
series	 n. number of things, events, etc of a similar kind, esp placed or occurring one after another
serious	solemn and thoughtful; not frivolous
seriously	in a serious way
seriousness	state of being serious
sermon	talk on a moral or religious subject, usu given by a clergyman from the pulpit during a religious service
serpent	n. snake, esp a large one
serpentine	 adj. twisting and curving like a snake
serrate	having marginal teeth pointing forward or toward the apex
serrated	 adj. having notches on the edge like a saw; having a toothed edge
serration	being serrated
serried	adj. (of rows of people or things) arranged close together in order
servant	person who works in sb else's household for wages, and often for food and lodging
serve	~ (as sth) work for (sb), esp as a servant
service	~ performing duties, eg in the armed forces, or working for a government, company, etc
serviceability	 [ serviceable: ] capable of or ready for service; usable
serviceable	in usable condition
servile	too ready to obey others; lacking independence
servility	n. servile behaviour or attitude
servitude	n. condition of being forced to work for others and having no freedom
session	meeting or series of meetings of a parliament, lawcourt, etc for discussing or deciding sth
set	~ group of similar things that belong together in some way
setting	way or place in which sth is fixed or fastened
settle	 n. wooden seat for two or more people, with a high back and arms, the seat often being the lid of a chest ,
settled	adj. not changing or likely to change; stable
settlement	settling or being settled
settler	n. person who comes to live permanently in a new, developing country; colonist
seven	pron, det 7; one more than six 7,.
seventeen	pron, det 17; one more than sixteen 17.
seventeenth	fifth
seventh	pron. det 7th; next after sixth 7. n. one of seven equal parts of sth
seventieth	 pron, det 70th; next after sixty-ninth 70. n one of seventy equal parts of sth
seventy	pron, det 70; one more than sixty-nine 70.
sever	~ sth (from sth) divide or break or separate sth by cutting
several	. (det)
severance	n. cutting or being cut; discontinuation
severe	~ (on/with sb/sth) strict or harsh in attitude or treatment; imposing stern discipline
severely	 adv. punish sb severely
severity	quality of being severe
sew	make stitches in cloth, etc with a needle and thread
sewage	 n. waste matter from human bodies, factories, towns, etc that flows away in sewers
sewer	n.
sewn	 pp of sew
sex	condition of being male or female; gender
sextant	n. instrument used for measuring the altitude of the sun, eg in order to determine the position of one's ship ,
sextet	 n. group of six singers or players
sexton	 n. person who takes care of a church and its churchyard, rings the church bell, etc
sextuple	 Multiplied by six.
shabbily	 adv: I think you have been shabbily treated
shabby	(of things) in poor condition through much use or being badly cared for
shack	n. roughly built shed, hut or house
shackle	either of a pair of metal rings linked by a chain, used for fastening a prisoner's wrists or ankles together
shackles	a metal ring or fastening, usually part of a pair used to secure a person's wrists or ankles; fetter
shade	~ (place where there is) comparative darkness and often coolness caused by sth blocking direct light or heat, esp of the sun
shading	the graded areas of tone, lines, dots, etc., indicating light and dark in a painting or drawin
shadow	shade caused by an object blocking direct rays of light
shadowy	full of shadows or shade
shady	giving shade from sunlight; situated in the shade
shaft	long slender stem of an arrow or a spear
shake	~ sb/sth (about/around) (cause sb/sth to) move quickly and often jerkily from side to side or up and down
shale	n. type of soft rock that splits easily into thin flat pieces
shall	(indicating future predictions)
shallop	a light boat used for rowing in shallow water
shallow	not deep
shallowness	n.
sham	 v. pretend (sth); feign
shamble	v. walk or run awkwardly, without raising one's feet properly
shambles	 n. scene of complete disorder; muddle; mess
shame	painful feeling caused by wrong, dishonourable, improper or ridiculous behaviour
shameful	 adj. causing shame; disgraceful
shameless	adj. having or showing no feeling of shame; immodest or impudent
shamelessly	adv.
shampoo	(type of) soapy liquid, cream, etc for washing the hair
Shangri-la	 a remote or imaginary utopia
shanty	 n. poorly-built hut, shed or cabin; shack
shape	outer form or appearance; outline of an area, a figure, etc
shapeless	adj. having no definite shape; not elegant in shape
shard	n. broken piece of pottery, glass, etc
share	~ part or portion of a larger amount which is divided among several or many people, or to which several or many people contribute
shareholder	n. owner of shares in a business company
shark	any of various types of sea-fish with a triangular fin on its back, some of which are large and dangerous to bathers
sharp	having a fine edge or point; capable of cutting or piercing; not blunt
sharpen	v. become sharp
sharpener	n. device that sharpens
sharply	in a sharp way
sharpness	n.
shatter	I, Tn] break suddenly and violently into small pieces
shattered	[ shatter: ] to break or be broken into many small pieces
shave	~ sth cut (hair) off the face, etc with a razor; cut hair off the face, etc of (sb) in this way
shaven	 adj. shaved
shaving	to remove (the beard, hair, etc.) from (the face, head, or body) by scraping the skin with a razor
shavings	 n. thin pieces of wood shaved off, esp with a plane
shawl	n. large piece of material worn round the shoulders or head of a woman, or wrapped round a baby ,
sheaf	n. bundle of stalks of corn, barley, etc tied together after reaping
shear	v. cut the wool off (a sheep) with shears
shears	 n. large cutting instrument shaped like scissors, used for shearing sheep, cutting hedges, etc and usu operated with both hands
sheath	 n. close-fitting cover for the blade of a weapon or tool
sheathe	put (sth) into a sheath
sheaves	pl of sheaf
shed	 n. one-storey building used for storing things, sheltering animals, vehicles, etc or as a workshop
sheen	n. gleaming brightness; shiny quality
sheep	grass-eating animal with a thick fleecy coat, kept in flocks for its flesh as food and for its wool
sheer	complete; thorough; utter
sheet	large rectangular piece of cotton, linen, etc, usu used in pairs between which a person sleeps
shelf	flat rectangular piece of wood, metal, glass or other material fastened horizontally to a wall or in a cupboard, bookcase, etc for things to be placed on
shell	hard outer covering of eggs, of nut-kernels, of some seeds and fruits, and of animals such as oysters, snails, crabs and tortoises
shelter	~ condition of being protected, kept safe, etc, eg from rain, danger, attack; refuge
shelve	 v. put on a shelf or shelves
shelves	pl of shelf
shepherd	 n. person who takes care of sheep
sherbet	refreshing drink of weak sweet fruit-juice
sheriff	chief officer of the Crown in counties and certain cities of England and Wales, with legal and ceremonial duties ,
shibboleth	 n. old slogan or principle that is no longer regarded by many as very important
shield	piece of (usu metal or leather) armour formerly carried on the arm to protect the body when fighting
shift	~ (sth/sb/oneself) (from.../to...); ~ (sth/sb/oneself) (about/around) (cause sth/sb/oneself to) change or move from one position or direction to another
shifting	 [ shift: ] to move or cause to move from one place or position to another
shiftless	adj. lazy and unambitious; lacking the ability to find ways of getting things done
shill	(slang)
shilling	British coin worth twelve old pennies; one twentieth of a pound 1971
shimmer	v. shine with a soft light that seems to waver
shindy	 n. (infml ) noisy disturbance; brawl
shine	give out or reflect light; be bright
shingle	n. small rounded pebbles on the sea-shore
ship	large vessel carrying people or goods by sea
shipbuilder	n.
shipbuilding	 n. building ships
shipment	placing of goods on a ship; transport of goods by any means
shipshape	adj. in good order; tidy
shipwreck	n. loss or destruction of a ship at sea by storm, collision, etc
shipwright	 n. person employed in building or repairing ships
shirk	v. avoid doing (work, one's duty, etc) through laziness, cowardice, etc
shirt	loose-fitting garment for the upper part of the body, made of cotton, linen, silk, etc, with long or short sleeves
shiver	 v. ~ tremble, esp from cold or fear
shoal	n. great number of fish swimming together
shock	violent blow or shake, caused eg by a collision or an explosion
shod	 pt, pp of shoe v
shoddy	 adj. of poor quality or badly made
shoe	outer covering for a person's foot, usu with a stiff sole and not reaching above the ankle
shone	pt, pp of shine
shook	pt of shake1
shoot	~ (sth) (at sb/sth); ~ sth (from sth); ~ sth (off) fire (a gun or some other weapon); fire (a bullet, an arrow, etc) at sb/sth
shop	building or room where goods or services are sold to the public
shopkeeper	 n. person who owns or manages a shop, usu a small one ,
shoplift	 v. steal goods from a shop while pretending to be a customer
shoplifter	 n.
shopping	 [ shop: ] a place, esp. a small building, for the retail sale of goods and services
shopsoiled	 worn, faded, tarnished, etc., from being displayed in a shop or store
shopworn	 stale from excessive use or familiarity
shore	n. land along the edge of the sea or of any large body of water
shorn	pp of shear
short	measuring little from one end to the other
shortage	 n. lack of sth needed; deficiency
shortcoming	n. failure to be of a required standard; fault
shorten	v. become shorter
shortening	 n. fat used to make pastry light and crumbly
shortfall	n. ~ deficit
shorthand	n. method of writing rapidly, using special quickly-written symbols
shortly	in a short time; not long; soon
short-range	designed for or applying to a limited period of time
shot	~ act of shooting a gun, etc; sound of this
should	(indicating obligation )
shoulder	part of the body where an arm, a foreleg or a wing is attached; part of the human body from this point to the neck
shout	loud call or cry
shove	push roughly
shovel	tool like a spade with curved edges, used for moving earth, snow, sand, etc
show	any type of public entertainment, eg a circus, a theatre performance, or a radio or TV programme
shower	brief fall of rain, sleet or hail; sudden sprinkle of water
showery	adj. with frequent showers of rain
showily	adv: dress very showily
shown	pp of show2
showpiece	anything displayed or exhibited
showy	adj. (often derog ) attracting attention through being bright, colourful or exaggerated
shrank	 pt of shrink
shred	strip or piece torn, cut or scraped from sth
shrew	small mouse-like animal that feeds on insects
shrewd	 adj. having or showing good judgement and common sense; astute
shriek	 v. ~ with sth; ~ (out) utter a shrill scream
shrill	(of sounds, voices, etc) high-pitched; piercing; sharp
shrimp	small marine shellfish that is used for food, becoming pink when boiled .
shrine	any place that is regarded as holy because of its associations with a special person or event
shrink	(cause sth to) become smaller, esp because of moisture or heat or cold
shrinkage	n. process of shrinking; amount by which sth shrinks
shrivel	v. ~ (sth) (up) (cause sth to) shrink and wrinkle from heat, cold or dryness
shroud	cloth or sheet in which a dead person is wrapped for burial
shrub	n. plant with a woody stem, lower than a tree and often having smaller stems branching off near the ground
shrug	raise (one's shoulders) slightly to express doubt, indifference, ignorance, etc
shrunken	 adj. having shrunk
shuck	outer covering of a nut, etc; shell; husk ;
shudder	v. ~ (with sth) shiver violently with cold, fear, etc; tremble
shuffle	walk without lifting the feet completely clear of the ground
shun	 v. keep away from (sth/sb); avoid
shunt	move (a railway locomotive, wagons, etc) from one track to another
shut	move (a door, lid, window, etc) into a position where it blocks an opening
shutter	movable panel or screen that can be closed over a window to keep out light or thieves
shuttle	(in a loom) instrument that pulls the thread of weft between the threads of warp
shy	(of people) timid and nervous in the presence of others; reserved
shyster	n. unscrupulous and dishonest person, esp a lawyer
sibilance	A hissing sound.
sibilant	 adj. like or produced with a hissing sound
sibilate	 To give a hissing sound to, as in pronouncing the letter s.
sibling	n. any one of two or more people with the same parents; brother or sister
sibyl	n. any of a group of women in the ancient world thought to be able to foresee the future
sibylline	adj. spoken by or characteristic of a sibyl; mysteriously prophetic
sic	adv. (placed in brackets after a quoted word or phrase that seems to be or is incorrect, in order to show that it is quoted accurately , )
sick	physically or mentally unwell; ill
sickle	 n. short-handled tool with a curved blade for cutting grass, corn, etc
sickness	illness; ill health
side	any of the flat or nearly flat surfaces of a solid object
sidelong	 adj. , adv to or from the side; sideways
sidereal	 adj. of the stars or measured by them
sideshow	 a small show or entertainment offered in conjunction with a larger attraction, as at a circus or fair
sidestep	 step to one side
sidetrack	to distract or be distracted from a main subject or topic
sidewalk	 n. = pavement 1
sideways	to, towards or from the side
sidle	v. ~ up/over ~ along, past, away, etc move (in the specified direction) furtively, or as if shy or nervous
siege	surrounding of a town, fortress, etc by armed forces in order to capture it or force it to surrender
sieve	utensil consisting of a wire mesh or gauze on a frame, used for separating solids or coarse matter from liquids or fine matter (which do pass through)
sift	put (sth) through a sieve
sifter	 n. small utensil like a sieve, used chiefly in cooking
sigh	~ take a long deep breath that can be heard, expressing sadness, tiredness, relief, etc
sight	ability to see; vision
sightsee	(informal)
sightseeing	n. visiting the sights of a place as a tourist
sightseer	n. person who does this
sign	mark, symbol, etc used to represent sth
signal	sign, gesture, sound, etc that conveys a message, command, etc
signatory	n. ~ person, country, etc that has signed an agreement
signature	person's name written by himself
significance	meaning
significant	having a meaning, esp one that is immediately obvious
signification	n. meaning of a word, etc
signify	be a sign of (sth); mean
silence	condition of being quiet or silent; absence of sound
silent	making no or little sound; not accompanied by any sound
silhouette	dark outline of sb/sth seen against a light background
silica	 n. compound of silicon occurring as quartz or flint, and in sandstone and other rocks
silicate	 n. any of the insoluble compounds of silica
siliceous	of, relating to, or containing silica
silicon	n. non-metallic chemical element found combined with oxygen in quartz, sandstone, etc .
silk	fine soft thread produced by silkworms to make their cocoons, or by certain insects or spiders
sill	 n. piece of wood, or stone, etc forming the base of a window or a door
silly	not showing thought or understanding; foolish
silt	 n. sand, mud, etc carried by flowing water and left at the mouth of a river, in a harbour, etc
silty	adj. covered with, full of or containing silt
silver	chemical element, ashiny white precious metal used for ornaments, jewellery,coins, utensils, etc
silversmith	n. person who makes or sells silver articles
silverware	 n. articles made of silver
simian	 adj. n (of or like a) monkey or ape
similar	adj. ~ resembling sb/sth but not the same; alike
similarity	being similar; likeness
similarly	in a similar way
simile	 n. comparison of one thing with another, eg `as brave as a lion', `a face like a mask'
similitude	being similar; similarity ;
simper	 v. smile in a foolish, affected way
simple	easily done or understood; not causing difficulty
simpleton	n. person who is foolish, easily deceived or not very intelligent
simplicity	being easy, plain or straightforward
simplification	 n. act or process of simplifying
simplify	 v. make (sth) easy to do or understand; make simple(1)
simplistic	 adj. making difficult problems, issues, ideas, etcseem much simpler than they really are; over-simplifying
simply	in an easy way
simulate	pretend to have or feel
simulated	adj. made to look, sound, etc like
simulation	action of simulating
simultaneous	 adj. ~ happening or done at the same time (as sth)
sin	the breaking of a religious or moral law
since	prep from (a specified time in the past) till a later past time, or till now
sincere	not pretended; genuine
sincerely	adv. thank sb sincerely
sincerity	n. quality of being sincere; honesty
sinecure	 n. position that requires no work or responsibility, but gives the holder prestige or money
sinew	tough cord of tissue joining a muscle to a bone; tendon ;
sinewy	having strong sinews; tough; muscular
sing	 v. ~ (sth) (for/to sb) make musical sounds with the voice; utter (words or notes) with a tune
singe	blacken (sth) by burning; scorch
singer	 a person who sings, esp. one who earns a living by singing
single	one only; not in a pair, group, etc
singular	of the form used when speaking about one person or thing
singularity	n. strangeness
singularly	(dated ) unusually; strangely
sinister	suggesting evil, or that sth bad may happen
sink	go down under the surface of a liquid or soft substance
sinkhole	a depression in the ground surface, esp. in limestone, where a surface stream disappears underground
sinner	 n: saints and sinners
sinuosity	quality of being sinuous
sinuous	adj. having many curves and twists; winding
sinus	n. cavity in a bone, esp any of the air-filled spaces in the skull that are connected to the nostrils ,
sip	v. drink (sth), taking very small quantities each time
sir	(used as a polite way of addressing a man )
sire	 n. male parent of an animal
siren	device that makes a long loud sound as a signal or warning
sirocco	n. hot moist wind reaching Italy from Africa
sister	daughter of the same parents as oneself or another person
sisterhood	relationship of sisters (1
sit	be in a position in which the body is upright and resting on the buttocks, either on a seat or on the ground
site	place where a building, town, etc was, is, or will be situated
sitting-room	 n. = living-room (living2)
situate	v. place or locate (eg a building or town) in a certain position
situated	 adj. in circumstances of a specified kind; placed
situation	set of circumstances or state of affairs, esp at a certain time
six	6; one more than five 6.
sixteen	pron, det 16; one more than fifteen 16.
sixteenth	fifth
sixth	pron, det 6th; next after fifth 6,
sixtieth	 pron, det 60th; next after fifty-ninth 60. n one of sixty equal parts of sth
sixty	pron, det 60; one more than fifty-nine *60.
size	the measurements or amount of sth; degree of largeness or smallness
sizing	 [ size: ] the dimensions, proportions, amount, or extent of something
sizzler	n. very hot day
skate	(also `ice-skate) either of a pair of boots with steel blades fixed to the soles so that the wearer can glide smoothly over ice
skein	length of wool, thread, etc wound into a loose coil
skeleton	framework of bones supporting an animal or a human body
skeptic	= sceptic
skeptical	Doubtful; unbelieving.
skepticism	 The entertainment of doubt concerning something.
sketch	rough quickly-made drawing, without many details
sketchily	adv: The book treats the problem too sketchily
sketchy	adj. (often derog ) lacking thoroughness and detail; incomplete; rough
skew	 adj. not straight; twisted or slanting
skewed	 [ skew: ] placed in or turning into an oblique position or course
skewer	 n. pin of wood or metal with a point, pushed through meat to hold it together while cooking ,
ski	n. either of a pair of long narrow strips of wood, plastic, etc fixed to a person's boots so that he can glide smoothly over snow
skier	n. person who uses skis . skiing n activity or sport of moving on skis
skiff	n. small light boat for rowing or sculling, usu by one person ,
skill	~ ability to do sth well
skilled	~ having skill; skilful
skillet	frying-pan .
skillful	 [ skilful: ] possessing or displaying accomplishment or skill
skillfulness	 [ skilful: ] possessing or displaying accomplishment or skill
skim	remove cream, scum, etc from the surface of (a liquid)
skimp	v. ~ use or provide less than enough of (what is needed)
skimpily	 adv: a skimpily made dress
skimpy	 adj. using or having less than enough of what is needed
skin	elastic substance that forms the outer covering of the body of a person or an animal
skinflint	n. miser
skip	move lightly and quickly, esp by taking two steps with each foot in turn
skirmish	 n. fight between small groups of soldiers, ships, etc, esp one that is not planned
skirt	woman's garment that hangs from the waist
skit	 n. ~ piece of humorous writing or short play that mimics or makes fun of sb/sth serious
skittish	lively and playful; difficult to control
skive	v. ~ (Brit sl ) avoid work, esp by staying away or going away from where it is being done
skulduggery	n. deception and planning of evil acts; trickery
skulk	v. hide or move around as if one is ashamed or trying to hide, esp when one is planning sth bad
skull	bony framework of the head under the skin
skunk	(also polecat) small bushy-tailed N American animal that can send out a strong unpleasant smell as a defence when attacked
sky	(usu the sky when but a sky or skies [pl] when modified by an adj the sky, a skyskies) the space seen when one looks upwards from the earth, where clouds and the sun, moon and stars appear
skylight	 n. window in a roof or ceiling .
skyrocket	another word for: rocket1 [1]
skyscraper	 n. very tall modern city building
slab	 n. thick flat, often rectangular or square, piece of stone, wood or other solid substance
slack	not tight or tense; loose
slacken	become slack
slacker	n. person who is lazy or avoids work
slag	waste matter that remains after metal has been extracted from ore by smelting
slain	pp of slay
slake	satisfy
slam	~ (sth) (to/shut) (cause sth to) shut forcefully and loudly
slander	n. false statement intended to damage sb's reputation
slanderous	 adj. a slanderous attack, accusation
slang	n. very informal words, phrases, etc commonly used in speech, esp between people from the same social group or who work together, not considered suitable for formal contexts and often not in use for long
slangy	 adj. typical of or containing slang
slant	lean in a particular direction; not be straight
slap	 v. strike (sb/sth) with the palm of the hand or with sth flat; smack
slapdash	 adj. adv in a careless and hasty way
slate	type of blue-grey rock that splits easily into thin flat layers
slattern	 n. dirty untidy woman
slaughter	the killing of animals, esp for food
slave	person who is the property of another and is forced to work for him
slaver	person who buys and sells slaves
slavery	condition of being a slave
slavish	adj. lacking in independence or originality
slay	or US) kill (esp an enemy) in a violent way
sleaze	 sleazines
sleazy	 adj. (infml ) (esp of a place) dirty and not respectable; sordid
sled	a vehicle mounted on runners, drawn by horses or dogs, for transporting people or goods, esp. over snow
sledge	 n. vehicle with long narrow strips of wood, metal, etc instead of wheels, for travelling over ice and snow
sledgehammer	 a large heavy hammer with a long handle used with both hands for heavy work such as forging iron, breaking rocks, etc.
sleek	smooth and glossy
sleep	condition that occurs regularly in humans and animals, esp at night, in which the eyes are closed and the muscles, nervous system, etc are relaxed
sleeper	person who sleeps in the specified way
sleepy	needing or ready to go to sleep
sleet	n. falling snow or hail mixed with rain
sleeve	part of a garment that covers all or part of the arm
sleeveless	 adj. without sleeves
sleigh	 n. sledge, esp one drawn by a horse
sleight	n. ,sleight of `hand great skill in using the hands in performing conjuring tricks, etc
slender	(approv ) not very wide but comparatively long or high
slew	 pt of slay
slice	thin wide flat piece cut off an item of food
slick	done smoothly and efficiently, apparently without effort
slide	act of sliding
slight	not serious or important; small
slightly	to a slightdegree
slim	(approv ) not fat or thick; slender
slime	thick soft slippery liquid substance, esp mud
slimy	of, like or covered with slime
sling	bandage, tied over one shoulder or round the neck, used to support a broken arm, wrist, etc
slink	move as if one feels guilty or ashamed, or does not want to be seen
slip	act of slipping; false step
slippage	,
slipper	n. loose-fitting light soft shoe worn in the house
slipperiness	 n.
slippery	(of a surface) difficult to hold, stand on or move on without slipping because it is smooth, wet, polished, etc
slipshod	 adj. not done or not doing things carefully; careless
slit	 n. long narrow cut, tear or opening
slither	v. slide or slip unsteadily
sliver	 n. long thin piece of sth cut or broken off from a larger piece; splinter
slobber	let saliva fall from the mouth; drool
slog	hit (sth/sb) hard
slogan	 n. word or phrase that is easy to remember, used as a motto eg by a political party, or in advertising
sloop	n. small ship with one mast and sails pointing forward and aft
slope	slanting line; surface that is at an angle of less than 90 to the earth's surface or a flat surface
sloppily	 adv. in a sloppy(1
sloppy	(infml ) (of a person) careless and untidy in dress, or in the wayhe does things
slot	narrow opening through which sth can be put
sloth	n. laziness; idleness ;
slothful	 adj. lazy; idle ;
slouch	 v. stand, sit or move in a lazy way, often not quite upright
slough	swamp; marsh ;
sloven	 n. slovenlyperson
slovenly	 adj. careless, untidy, dirty, etc in appearance, dress or habits
slow	not moving, acting or done quickly; taking a long time; not fast
slowly	in a slow1(1) way
slue	 = slew
sluggard	 n. lazy slow-moving person
sluggish	 adj. slow-moving; not alert or lively; lethargic
sluice	sliding gate or other device for controlling the flow of water out of or into a canal, lake, lock, etc
slum	street, alley, etc of badly-built, over-crowded buildings
slumber	v. sleep, esp peacefully and comfortably
slumberer	n. person who slumbers
slumberous	 adj. sleepy
slump	fall or flop heavily
slung	pt, pp of sling
slunk	pt, pp of slink
slur	run (sounds, words) into each other so that they are indistinct
slurp	v. make a loud noise with the lips as one eats or drinks (sth)
sly	(often derog ) acting or done in a secret, often cunning and deceitful, way
slyly	adv.
small	not large in size, degree, number, value, etc
smarmy	 adj. (Brit infml derog , ) trying to make oneself popular by flattery and charm
smart	bright and new-looking; well-dressed; neat
smash	~ sth ~ sth open (cause sth to) be broken violently into pieces
smash-and-grab	 adj. in which the thief smashes a shop window to steal the goods on display
smashing	 adj. excellent
smatter	a smattering
smattering	 n. ~ slight knowledge, esp of a language
smear	~ sth on/over sth/sb; ~ sth/sb with sth spread a greasy or sticky substance, eg paint, on sth/sb
smell	ability to smell
smelt	heat and melt in order to obtain the metal it contains
smile	expression of the face, usu with the corners of the mouth turned up, showing happiness, amusement, pleasure, etc
smirch	 v. = besmirch
smirk	n. silly or self-satisfied smile
smite	hit (sb/sth) hard; strike
smithereens	n. small pieces
smitten	pp of smite
smog	 n. mixture of fog and smoke
smoke	visible vapour coming from sth that is burning
smokeless	burning with little or no smoke
smolder	= smoulder
smooth	having an even surface without points, lumps, bumps, etc; not rough
smoothly	 adv. in a smooth manner
smoothness	 n.
smote	pt of smite
smother	die from lack of air, or from not being able to breathe; suffocate
smoulder	 v. burn slowly without flame
smudge	 n. dirty or blurred mark, oftencaused by rubbing
smug	 adj. (usu derog ) too pleased with or proud of oneself, one's achievements, etc; self-satisfied
smuggle	get (goods) secretly and illegally into or out of a country, esp without paying customs duty
smuggler	 n. person whosmuggles
smuggling	n. activity of smuggling
smugness	 n.
smutty	marked with smuts (smut 1); dirty
snack	n. small meal, usu eaten in a hurry, esp between main meals
snag	small difficulty or obstacle, usu hidden, unknown or unexpected
snail	type of small soft slow-moving animal, usu with a hard spiral shell
snake	any of various types of long legless crawling reptile, some of which are poisonous
snaky	adj. of or like a snake
snap	(cause sth to) break suddenly with a sharp noise
snappish	 adj. inclined to snap1(3); bad-tempered or irritable
snappy	inclined to snap1(3); irritable
snare	trap for catching small animals and birds, esp one with a noose made of rope or wire
snarl	~ (of dogs, etc) show the teeth and growl angrily
snarled	[ snarl: ] (of an animal) to growl viciously, baring the teeth
snarler	n. person who speaks in an angry badtempered voice or animal which shows teeth and growl angrily
snatch	 v. seize (sth/sb) quickly and sometimes rudely; grab
snazzy	 adj. (infml ) (esp of clothes) smart and stylish
sneak	~ (to sb) (Brit infml derog , ) (used esp by children ) tell an adult about the faults, wrongdoings, etc of another child
sneaking	 adj. secret and unexpressed
sneer	v. ~ smile with the upper lip curled, to show contempt (for sb/sth); laugh scornfully
sneeze	 n. sudden uncontrollable noisy outburst of air through the nose and mouth
snicker	v. laugh in a suppressed, esp unpleasant, way; snigger
snide	adj. critical in an indirect unpleasant way; sneering
sniff	draw air in through the nose so that there is a sound
snigger	n. half-suppressed unpleasantlaugh
snip	~ (at) sth cut sth sharply (esp with scissors or shears) in short quick strokes
snips	[ snip: ] to cut or clip with a small quick stroke or a succession of small quick strokes, esp. with scissors or shears
snitch	steal (sth) by taking it quickly
snivel	 v. (derog ) cry and sniff in a miserable, usu self-pitying, way
snivelling	 adj. tending to whine and complain; weak
snob	 n. person who pays too much respect to social position and wealth, or who despises people of a lower social position
snobbery	 n. behaviour, language, etc characteristic of a snob
snobbish	 adj. of or like a snob
snobbishness	 n.
snoop	~ (about/around sth); ~ (about/around) search or investigate (eg to find mistakes, signs that people are breaking rules, etc) in a persistent and secretive way
snooty	 adj. (infml derog , ) showing disapproval and contempt towards others
snore	v. breathe roughly and noisily while sleeping
snout	projecting nose and mouth of an animal
snow	frozen water vapour that falls to the ground from the sky in soft white flakes; mass of such flakes on the ground, etc
snowdrift	a bank of deep snow driven together by the win
snowflake	n. any one of the soft small collections of ice crystals that fall as snow
snowstorm	n. heavy fall of snow, esp with a strong wind
snowy	covered with snow
snub	 v. treat (sb) coldly, rudely or with contempt, esp by paying no attention (to him)
snuffle	v. make sniffing noises
snug	sheltered from cold, wind, etc; warm and comfortable; cosy
snuggle	v. ~ ~ (up/down) lie or get close (to sb) for warmth, comfort or affection
so	to such an extent
soak	~ (in sth) become thoroughly wet by being in liquid or by absorbing liquid
soaked	completely wet
soap	substance used for washing and cleaning, made of fat or oil combined with an alkali
soar	go up high in the air quickly
sob	draw in breath noisily and irregularly from sorrow, pain, etc, esp while crying
sober	with one's actions and thoughts not affected by alcohol
soberly	adv: soberly dressed
sobriety	 n. quality or state of being sober
sobriquet	a humorous epithet, assumed name, or nickname
so-called	adj. (used to suggest that the words used to describe sb/sth are not appropriate )
soccer	 n. = association football (association)
sociability	n.
sociable	 adj. fond of the company of other people; friendly
social	concerning the organization of and relations between people and communities
socialism	n. political and economic theory advocating that a country's land, transport, natural resources and chief industries should be owned and controlled by the whole community or by the State, and that wealth should be equally distributed
socialist	supporter of socialism
socialistic	adj. characterized by or supporting some of the features of socialism
socialite	n. person who is prominent in fashionable society, attending many parties, etc
society	system whereby people live together in organized communities; social way of living
sociological	 adj. of or concerning sociology
sociologist	n. student of or expert in sociology
sociology	n. scientific study of the nature and development of society andsocial behaviour
sociopath	nouc
sock	short stocking covering the ankle and lower part of the leg, usu well below the knee
socket	 n. natural or artificial hollow into which sth fits or in which sth turns
sod	n. layer of earth with grass growing in it
soda	chemical substance in common use, a compound of sodium
sodden	soaked through; very wet
sodium	 n. chemical element, asilver-white metal that comes naturally only in compounds.
sofa	 n. large comfortable padded seat with raised arms and back, wide enough for two or more people
soft	changing shape easily when pressed; not hard or firm to the touch
softball	 game similar to baseball played on a smaller field with a larger soft ball
soften	become soft or softer
softener	 n. chemical substance used for softening hard water; device using this ;
softish	adj. rather soft
softly	 adv. in a soft way
softness	 n.
software	 n. data, programmes, etc not forming part of a computer but used when operating it
soggy	very wet; heavy with water
soil	upper layer of earth in which plants, trees, etc grow; ground
sojourn	v. stay (with sb) in a place for a time
sol	The sun.
solace	 n. (thing that gives) comfort or relief (from pain, trouble, distress, etc)
solar	of, concerningor related to the sun
sold	 pt, pp of sell
solder	 n. soft mixture of metals used, when melted, for joining harder metals, wires, etc together
soldier	member of an army, esp one who is not an officer
soldierly	adj. like a soldier; with the qualities of a soldier
sole	 n. flat sea-fish that is eaten as food
solecism	mistake in the use of language, esp one that shows sb to be foreign or of low social class ,
solely	 adv. alone; only
solemn	not happy or smiling; looking very serious
solemnity	state or quality of being solemn; seriousness
solicit	~ (for sth); ~ (sth) (from sb) (fml ) ask (sb) for (eg money, help, votes) earnestly; try to obtain (sth)
solicitation	 [ solicit: ] to make a request, application, or entreaty to (a person for business, support, etc)?
solicitor	lawyer who prepares legal documents (eg for the sale of land or buildings), advises clients on legal matters, and speaks for them in the lower courts
solicitous	 adj. ~ (fml ) very concerned and anxious about (sb's welfare, comfort, etc)
solicitousness	 [ solicitous: ] showing consideration, concern, attention, etc.
solicitude	 n. ~ (fml ) being solicitous; concern or anxiety
solid	not in the form of a liquid or gas; keeping its shape; firm
solidarity	 n. unity and agreement resulting from shared interests, feelings, actions, sympathies, etc
solidify	 v. ~ (into sth) (cause sth to) become solid, hard or firm
solidity	 n. quality or state of being solid
soliloquy	n. speaking one's thoughts aloud, esp in a play when a character does this without another character being present on stage
solitary	(living) alone; without companions
solitude	 n. being alone without companions; solitary state
solo	piece of music, dance, entertainment, etc performed by only one person
solstice	 n. either of the two times of the year at which the sun is furthest North or South of the equator
solubility	 (n.) that can be solved; that can be dissolved
soluble	~ that can be dissolved
solution	~ (action or way of finding an) answer to a problem, question, difficulty, etc
solvable	 adj. that can be solved or explained; soluble
solve	find an answer to explain or make clear (a mystery, etc) ,
solvency	 n. being solvent
solvent	having enough money to pay one's debts; not in debt
somatic	pertaining to the body; physical
somber	 of a dismal or depressing character:MELANCHOLY
sombre	dark-coloured; dull and dismal
some	(used with ns ) an unspecified amount of
somebody	some person
somehow	in some way; by some means
someone	indef pron = somebody
something	some thing
sometime	 indef adv at a particular but unspecified time
sometimes	indef adv at some times but not all the time; occasionally
somewhat	 indef adv to some degree; rather
somewhere	indef adv in, at or to some place
somnambulism	 n. activity or habit of walking in one's sleep; sleep-walking ;
somnambulist	 n. person who does this; sleep-walker ;
somniferous	Tending to produce sleep.
somnolence	 n. sleepiness; drowsiness ;
somnolent	almost asleep; sleepy; drowsy
son	male child of a parent
sonata	 n. piece of music composed for one instrument (eg the piano), or two (eg piano and violin), usu with three or four movements
song	poem set to music and intended to be sung
sonic	adj. relating to sound, sound-waves or the speed of sound
sonnet	 n. type of poem containing 14 lines, each of 10 syllables, and with a formal pattern of rhymes
sonority	 n. (fml )
sonorous	having a full deep sound
soon	not long after the present time or the time mentioned; within a short time
soot	 n. black powder in the smoke of wood, coal, etc
soothe	make quiet or calm; calm or comfort
soothing	 [ soothe: ] vt. to make calm or tranquil
soothsayer	 n. fortune-teller; prophet
sop	~ thing offered to a displeased or troublesome person to calm him or win his favour
sophism	n. (use of) such arguments
sophist	n. person who uses clever but false arguments intended to deceive
sophistic	of or relating to sophists or sophistry
sophisticate	 n. sophisticated person
sophisticated	having or showing much worldly experience and knowledge of fashionable life
sophistication	 n. quality of being sophisticated
sophistry	n. use of sophisms
sophomoric	 conceited and overconfident of knowledge but poorly informed and immature
soporific	n, adj causing sleep
soprano	singing voice of the highest range for a woman or boy
sorcery	n. art, use or practice of magic, esp with evil spirits; witchcraft ;
sordid	(of conditions, places, etc) dirty and unpleasant; squalid
sore	(of a part of the body) hurting when touched or used; tender and painful; aching
sorrow	~ feeling of sadness or distress caused esp by loss, disappointment or regret; grief
sorrowful	adj. feeling, showing or causing sorrow
sorrowfully	adv: weeping sorrowfully
sorry	~ feeling sadness or regret
sort	group or class of people or things (which are alike in some way); type
sought	 pt, pp of seek
soul	spiritual or non-material part of a person, believed to exist after death
soulful	adj. having, affecting or showing deep feeling
soulfully	adv: soulfully playing the guitar
sound	in good condition; not hurt, diseased, injured or damaged
soundly	adv. in a sound manner; thoroughly and fully
soup	liquid food made by cooking vegetables, meat, etc in water
sour	having a sharp taste (like that of vinegar, a lemon or unripe fruit)
source	starting-point of a river
sourpuss	 n. bad-tempered person
souse	plunge (sb/sth) into or soak in water; throw water on or over ;
south	one of the four main points of the compass, on the right of a person facing the rising sun
southeast	the point of the compass or the direction midway between south and east, 135 clockwise from north
southern	 southern adj in or of the south
southernmost	 adj. furthest south
southward	situated, directed, or moving towards the south
southwards	 southward
southwest	the point of the compass or the direction midway between west and south, 225 clockwise from north
souvenir	 n. thing taken, bought or received as a gift, and kept to remind one of a person, a place or an event
sovereign	(of power) without limit; highest
sovereignty	independent sovereign power
soviet	any of the councils of workers, etc in any part of the USSR (the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics)
sow	n. fully grown female pig .
space	unused or unfilled gap or area between two or more objects or points
spacecraft	 n. (also `spaceship) vehicle manned or unmanned for travelling in space
spaceship	n. = spacecraft
spacious	 adj. having or providing much space; roomy
spade	tool for digging, with a wooden handle and a broad metal blade
spadeful	 n. amount carried on a spade
span	distance or part between the supports of an arch or a bridge
spangle	n. tiny piece of shining metal or plastic used for decoration on a dress, etc, esp in large numbers
Spanish	adj. of Spain; of the people of Spain or their language
spank	slap with a flat hand, esp on the buttocks, as a punishment
spanking	 n. series of spanks; process of spanking
spare	in addition to what is usu needed or used; kept in reserve for use when needed
sparing	adj. ~ with/of/in sth economical or frugal with sth; not wasteful of sth
spark	tiny glowing particle thrown off from sth burning or produced when two hard substances (eg stone, metal, flint) are struck together
sparkle	shine brightly with flashes of light
sparkling	giving off tiny bubbles of gas
sparring	any piece of nautical gear resembling a pole and used as a mast, boom, gaff, etc.
sparrow	n. type of small brownish-grey bird common in many parts of the world
sparse	 adj. not dense, thick or crowded; thinly scattered
sparsely	 adv. a sparsely furnished room, ie one with little furniture
Spartan	adj. (of conditions) simple and harsh; without luxury or comforts
spasm	strong, sudden and uncontrollable tightening of a muscle or muscles
spasmodic	occurring or done at irregular intervals (usu for short periods at a time); not continuous or regular
spasmodically	adv: spasmodically energetic
spat	 pt, pp of spit1
spatchcock	 a chicken or game bird split down the back and grilled
spate	sudden fast rush
spatial	adj. of, concerning or existing in space
spatula	tool with a wide flat blunt blade used for mixing and spreading, esp in cooking and painting
spawn	eggs of fish, shellfish and frogs, toads, etc
speak	make use of words in an ordinary voice (not singing); utter words
speaker	person who makes speeches; person who speaks or was speaking
spear	weapon with a metal point on a long handle, used for hunting and fighting
special	of a particular or certain type; not common, usual or general
specialist	 n. person who is an expert in a special branch of work or study, esp of medicine
speciality	interest, activity, skill, etc to which a person gives particular attention or in which he specializes
specialization	 [ specialize: ] to train in or devote oneself to a particular area of study, occupation, or activity
specialize	 To pursue a special activity, occupation, or field of study
specialized	[ specialize: ] to train in or devote oneself to a particular area of study, occupation, or activity
specially	for a particular purpose
specialty	An employment limited to one particular line of work.
specie	 n. money in the form of coins (contrasted with paper)
species	group of animals or plants within a genus(1) differing only in minor details from the others, and able to breed with each other but not with other groups
specific	detailed, precise and exact
specifically	 adv. in a specific manner
specification	details and instructions describing the design, materials, etc of sth to be made or done
specifics	[ specific: ] explicit, particular, or definite
specify	v. (esp fml ) state or name clearly and definitely (details, materials, etc)
specimen	thing or part of a thing taken as an example of its group or class
speciosity	 a thing or person that is deceptively attractive or plausible
specious	 adj. seeming rightor true but actually wrong or false
speciousness	 n.
speck	n. very small spot or stain; tiny particle
speckle	n. small mark or spot, esp one of many, often occurring as natural markings on a different coloured background
spectacle	grand public display, procession, performance, etc
spectacular	adj. making a very fine display or show
spectator	n. person who watches
spectators	 [ spectator: ] a person viewing anything; onlooker; observer
specter	Apparition.
spectral	of or like a spectre(1)
spectre	ghost; phantom
spectrum	image of a band of colours as seen in a rainbow (and usu described as red, orange, yellow, green, blue, indigo and violet), formed by a ray of light that has passed through a prism
speculate	~ form opinions without having definite or complete knowledge or evidence; guess
speculation	~ (over/about/upon/on sth) action of speculating (speculate1)
speculative	concerned with or formed by speculation
speculator	 n. person who speculates
speech	power or act of speaking
speechless	 adj. unable to speak, esp because of strong feeling
speed	quickness of movements; swiftness
speedboat	n. motor-boat designed to go at high speeds
speleological	adj. speleological exploration
speleologist	 n. scientist who studies caves; expert in speleology ;
speleology	scientific study and exploration of caves
spell	words which when spoken are thought to have magical power; charm
spellbind	to cause to be spellbound; entrance or enthra
spellbound	 adj. with the attention held by, or as if by, a magical spell; entranced
spelling	ability of a person to spell
spelunker	(n.) one who studies caves
spend	v. ~ sth (on/sth) give or pay out (money) for goods, services, etc
spendthrift	n. person who spends money extravagantly and wastefully
spent	adj. having lost power or strength; used
sphagnum	 n. type of moss that grows in wet areas, used esp for packing plants
sphere	solid figure that is entirely round (ie with every point on the surface at an equal distance from the centre)
spherical	adj. shaped like a sphere
spheroid	 n. solid object that is almost, but not perfectly, spherical
spherometer	An instrument for measuring curvature or radii of spherical surfaces.
sphinx	stone statue in Egypt with a lion's body and a man's or an animal's head
spice	any of various types of substance obtained from plants, with a strong taste and/or smell, used, esp in powder form, for flavouring food
spider	 n. any of several types of small creature with eight thin legs, many of which spin webs to trap insects as food
spidery	having thin angular lines like a spider's legs
spiel	n. long or fast prepared speech (usu intended to persuade sb or as an excuse)
spike	hard thin pointed piece of metal, wood, etc; sharp point
spill	v. =>Usage at dream
spin	~ sth (round) make sth turn round and round rapidly
spindly	adj. very long or tall and thin
spine	row of bones along the back of humans and some animals; backbone
spineless	having no spine(1); invertebrate
spinet	 n. old type of musical instrument with a keyboard, similar to a harpsichord
spinney	n. small wood with thick undergrowth; thicket ;
spinous	Having spines.
spinster	 n. (law or fml ) unmarried woman
spinsterhood	 n. state of being a spinster
spiny	adj. full of or covered with spines (spine 2); prickly
spiral	 adj. advancing or ascending in a continuous curve that winds round a central point
spirally	 adv: a spirally bound book, ie with its pages held together by wire bent spirally
spire	n. pointed structure in the form of a tall cone or pyramid, esp on a church tower
spirit	person's mind or feelings as distinct from his body; soul
spirited	 adj. full of spirit(6); lively; forceful
spiritedness	 [ spirited: ] displaying animation, vigour, or liveliness
spiritual	of the human spiritor soul; not of physical things
spit	~ sth (out) (at/on/onto sb/sth) send (liquid, saliva, food, etc) out from the mouth
spite	desire to hurt, annoy or offend another person; ill will
spiteful	 adj. showing or caused by spite; full of spite
splash	~ sth (about) (on/onto/over sb/sth); ~ sb/sth (with sth) cause (a liquid) to fly about in drops; make sb/sth wet in this way ;
splashy	having irregular marks
spleen	organ of the body situated at the left of the stomach, which regulates the quality of the blood
spleenish	[ spleen: ] a spongy highly vascular organ situated near the stomach in man. It forms lymphocytes, produces antibodies, aids in destroying worn-out red blood cells, and filters bacteria and foreign particles from the blood
splendid	magnificent; displaying splendour
splendor	 [ splendour: ] the state or quality of being splendid
splenetic	adj. habitually grumpy and irritable
splice	join (two ends of rope) by weaving the strands of one into the strands of the other
splint	 n. piece of wood, metal, etc strapped to an injured arm, leg, etc to keep it in the right position while it heals
splinter	 n. small thin sharp piece of wood, metal, glass, etc broken off a larger piece
split	~ (sth/sb) (up) (into sth) (cause sth to) break or be broken (into two or more parts), esp from end to end
splurge	act of spending money freely
spoil	make (sth) useless, valueless or unsatisfactory; ruin
spoilage	 n. spoiling of food, etc by decay ,
spoilsport	 (informal)
spoke	any of the bars or wire rods that connect the centre of a wheel to its outer edge (rim), eg on a bicycle .
spoken	 pp of speak
spokesman	spokeswoman , pl -women ) person who speaks, or is chosen to speak, on behalf of a group .
spoliation	 n. activity of spoiling (spoil 1) or damaging, esp with force; pillaging or plundering , ;
sponge	type of simple sea animal with a light elastic body-structure full of holes that can absorb water easily
spongy	 adj. soft, elastic and able to absorb water like a sponge
sponsor	person who makes himself responsible for another
spontaneity	impulsiveness; absence of premeditation
spontaneous	adj. done,happening, said, etc because of a voluntary impulse from within, not caused or suggested by sth/sb outside
spoof	~ (of/on sth) humorous imitation or parody
spool	= reel1 1
spoon	utensil with a shallow oval or round bowl on a handle, used for stirring, serving and taking up food (esp puddings and soups) to the mouth
spoonerism	well-boiled icicle
spoor	n. track or scent left by a wild animal
sporadic	 adj. happening or seen only occasionally or in a few places; occurring irregularly
sporadically	 adv.
spore	n. any of the tiny seed-like reproductive cells of some plants such as ferns, mosses and fungi
sport	physical activity done, esp outdoors, for exercise and amusement, usu played in a special area and according to fixed rules
sportive	 adj. playful
sportsman	person who takes part in or is fond of sport ;
sportsmanlike	adj. behaving fairly and generously
sportsmanship	n. sportsmanlike quality or spirit
spot	small mark different in colour, texture, etc from the surface it is on
spouse	 n. husband or wife
spout	projecting pipe or tube through or from which liquid pours, eg for carrying rain-water from a roof or tea from a teapot
sprain	 v. injure by sudden twisting or wrenching so that there is pain and swelling
sprang	 pt of spring3
sprawl	~ (out/about/around) (across, in, on, etc sth) sit, lie or fall with the arms and legs spread out loosely
sprawling	[ sprawl: ] to sit or lie in an ungainly manner with one's limbs spread out
spray	small branch of a tree or plant, with its leaves and flowers
spread	~ sth (out) (on/over sth) extend the surface area, width or length of sth by unfolding or unrolling it
spree	n. lively and enjoyable outing, usu with much spending of money
sprig	n. ~ small twig (of a plant or bush) with leaves, etc
sprightly	adj. lively and full of energy
spring	act of springing or jumping up; jump
springboard	strong flexible board from which a person can jump high before diving or performing a gymnastic feat
springtime	 n. season of spring
sprinkle	 v. ~ A ~ B (with A) scatter or throw sth in small drops or particles; scatter a shower of small drops, etc on (a surface)
sprinkler	n. device for sprinkling water or as part of a fire-extinguishing system installed in a building
sprinkling	 n. ~ (usu sing ) small amount or number
sprint	 v. run a short distance at full speed
sprocket	each of several teeth on a wheel that connect with the links of a chain or the holes in a film or in paper or magnetic tape
sprout	~ (from sth) begin to grow or appear; put out leaves, shoots, etc
spruce	 adj. tidy and clean in appearance; smart ;
sprung	 pp of spring3
spry	 adj. lively and active
spume	n. foam; froth
spun	 pp of spin
spunk	courage; spirit ;
spur	either of a pair of sharp-toothed wheels or projecting points, worn on the heels of a rider's boots and used to make a horse go faster
spurious	 adj. not genuine or authentic; false or fake
spurn	v. reject or refuse scornfully or contemptuously
spy	person who tries to get secretinformation about military affairs, etc, esp one employedby a government to do this in another country
squabble	 v. ~ (about/over sth) quarrel noisily (as children do), esp over unimportant matters
squadron	group of military aircraft forming a unit in the Royal Air Force
squalid	very dirty and unpleasant (esp because of neglect or poverty)
squall	sudden violent wind, often with rain or snow ,
squalor	n. squalid state
squander	 v. ~ sth waste (time, money, etc); use sth wastefully
square	having four equal sides and four right angles; having the shape of a square2
squarely	so as to form a right angle; directly centred
squash	press or squeeze (sb/sth) flat or into a pulp; crush
squat	~ (down) (of people) sit on one's heels or on the ground with the knees drawn up under or close to the body; crouch
squatter	person who sits in a squatting position
squeak	short high-pitched cry or sound
squeamish	having a delicate stomach and easily made sick
squeeze	press on (sth) from opposite sides or all sides
squelch	make a sucking sound as when feet are lifted from thick sticky mud
squint	have eyes that do not move together but look in different directions at once
squirm	move by twisting the body about; wriggle; writhe
squirrel	small tree-climbing animal with a bushy tail and red or grey fur
ss	Saints
stab	 v. pierce (sth) or wound (sb) with a pointed tool or weapon; push (a knife, etc) into sb/sth ;
stability	n. quality or state of being stable
stabilization	[ stabilize: ] to make or become stable or more stable
stabilize	to make stable, steadfast, or firm
stable	 adj. firmly established or fixed; not likely to move or change
staccato	 adj. adv (to be played) with each successive note short, clear anddetached; not smooth(ly)
stack	circular or rectangular pile of hay, straw, grain, etc, usu with a sloping top for storage in the open; rick
stadium	n. enclosed area of land for games, athletic contests, etc, usu with seats for spectators
staff	strong stick or pole used as a support when walking or climbing, as a weapon, or as a symbol of authority or sign of office
stage	platform or area on which plays are performed to an audience
stagecoach	 a large four-wheeled horse-drawn vehicle formerly used to carry passengers, mail, etc., on a regular route between towns and citie
stagger	walk or move unsteadily as if about to fall
staggering	 adj. astonishing; shocking
stagnant	not flowing and therefore dirty and smelling unpleasant; still and stale
stagnate	be or become stagnant
stagnation	 The condition of not flowing or not changing.
stagy	adj. (usu derog ) (too) theatrical in style, manner or behaviour; exaggerated for effect
staid	adj. (of people, their appearance, behaviour, tastes, etc) serious, dull and old-fashioned; conservative
stain	to mark or discolour with patches of something that dirties
stainless	adj. free from stains or blemishes; spotless
stair	stairs series of fixed steps from one floor of a building to another, usu inside
staircase	n. set of stairs and its supporting structure, inside a building
stairway	 n. = staircase
stake	strong wood or metal stick, pointed at one end, that can be driven into the ground, eg to support a young tree, as a post for a fence, etc or as a marker
stalactite	 n. icicle-shaped formation of lime hanging from the roof ofa cave, formed by the steady dripping of water containingminerals
stalagmite	 n. formation of lime extending upwards like a pillar from the floor of a cave as water from a stalactite drips onto it .
stale	smelling or tasting unpleasant, mouldy or dry, because no longer fresh
stalemate	position of the pieces in the game of chess in which the player whose move it is cannot move without putting his king in check
stalk	main stem of a plant
stall	compartment, usu with three sides, for one animal in a stable or cattle shed
stallion	 n. fully grown male horse thathas not been castrated, esp one used for breeding
stalwart	(of a person) strong and sturdy
stamen	 n. any of the small thin male parts in the middle of a flower that produce pollen
stamina	n. ability to endure much physical or mental strain; long-lasting energy and resilience; staying-power
stammer	speak with sudden pauses and a tendency to repeat rapidly the same sound or syllable (because of a speech defect or from fear, excitement, etc)
stammerer	n. person who stammers
stamp	~ sth put (one's foot) down heavily on (the ground, etc); flatten (sth) by doing this
stampede	sudden rush of frightened animals
stance	;
stanch	 v. stop the flow of (esp blood)
stanchion	n. upright bar or post forming a support
stand	stationary condition; halt or standstill
standard	thing used as a test or measure for weights, lengths, quality, purity, etc
standardize	to make or become standard
standing	position or reputation; status; rank
standoffish	adj. reserved, haughty, or aloof
standpoint	 n. position from which things are seen and opinions are formed; point of view
standstill	 n. halt; stop
stank	pt of stink
stanza	 n. group of lines forming a unit in some types of poem; verse of poetry
staple	small thin piece of bent wire that is driven into sheets of paper, etc and flattened to fasten them together
stapler	n. small hand-operated instrument for fastening papers, etc together with staples
star	any one of the distant bodies appearing as a point of light in the sky at night
starboard	n. side of a ship or aircraft that is on the right when one is facing forward
starchy	of or like starch
stardom	n. status of being a famous actor, performer, etc
stare	v. ~ look (at sb/sth) with the eyes wide open in a fixed gaze (in astonishment, wonder, fear, etc)
stark	desolate and bare; grim; cheerless
starless	 adj. with no stars to be seen
start	beginning of a journey, an activity, a plan, a race, etc; process or act of starting
startle	v. give a sudden shock or surprise to cause to move or jump suddenly (from surprise)
startling	adj. very surprising; astonishing; remarkable
starvation	 n. suffering ordeath caused by lack of food
starve	suffer severely or die from hunger
stash	v. ~ sth (infml ) store sth safely and secretly; hide sth
stasis	a stagnation in the normal flow of bodily fluids, such as the blood or urine
state	condition in which a person or thing is (in circumstances, appearance, mind, health, etc); quality of circumstances, characteristics, etc
statecraft	 n. skill in managing State affairs; statesmanship ;
stately	adj. dignified; imposing; grand
statement	stating sth or expressing sth in words
statesman	stateswoman , pl -women ) person who plays an important part in the management of State affairs, esp one who is skilled and fair; wise political leader
statesmanlike	adj. having or showing the qualities and abilities of a wise statesman
statesmanship	n. skill and wisdom in managing public affairs
static	not moving or changing; stationary
station	place, building, etcwhere a service is organized and provided, or specializedwork is done
stationary	not moving
stationery	 n. writing materials
statistic	n. item of information expressed in numbers
statistical	adj. of or shown by statistics
statistically	adv: It has been proved statistically that
statistician	 n. person who studies or works with statistics
statistics	 n. collection of information shown in numbers
statuary	statues
statue	 n. figure of a person, an animal, etc in wood, stone, bronze, etc, usu life-size or larger
statuesque	,
statuette	n. small statue
stature	natural height of the body
status	person's social, legal or professional position or rank in relation to others
statute	law passed by Parliament or a similar law-making body and written down formally
statutory	adjfixed, done or required by statute
staunch	adj. firm, loyal and dependable in opinion and attitude
stay	remain or continue in the same place (for a long or short time, permanently or temporarily, as specified by the context); not depart or change
steadfast	adj. ~ (fml usu approv , ) firm and not changing or yielding; constant
steadily	 adv. firmly
steadiness	 n.
steady	firmly fixed, supported or balanced; not shaking, rocking or likely to fall over
steak	meat (esp beef) or fish, cut for frying or grilling, etc
steal	~ (sth) (from sb/sth) take (another person's property) secretly without permission or legal right; take (sth) dishonestly
stealth	n. acting or behaving in a quiet or secret way
stealthy	 adj. doing things, or done, with stealth
steam	invisible gas into which water is changed by boiling
steamer	a boat or ship driven by steam engines
steamship	n. ship driven by steam
steed	n. horse
steel	strong hard alloy of iron and carbon, much used for making vehicles, tools, knives, machinery, etc
steep	(of a slope, stairs, etc) rising or falling sharply, not gradually
steepen	v. become steep1(1) or steeper
steepish	 adj. quite steep
steeple	n. tall tower with a spire on top, rising above the roof of a church .
steer	direct or control the course of (a boat, car, etc)
stellar	adj. of a star or stars
stem	main central part of a plant, bush or tree coming up from the roots, from which the leaves or flowers grow
stench	 n. very unpleasant smell
stencil	thin sheet of metal, cardboard, etc with a design or letters cut out of it, used for putting this design, etc onto a surface when ink or paint is applied to it ,
stenographer	 (Brit ,shorthand-typist) n person who can write shorthand or is employed to do this
stenography	n. = shorthand (short)
stentorian	 adj. (of a voice) loud and powerful
step	lift and put down the foot, or one foot after the other, as in walking
steppe	 n. flat grassy plain with few trees, esp in SE Europe and Siberia
stereo	stereophonic sound or recording
stereochemistry	the study of the spatial arrangement of atoms in molecules and the effect of spatial arrangement on chemical propertie
stereotype	image,idea, character, etc that has become fixed or standardizedin a conventional form without individuality
sterile	not producing or not able to produce seeds, young or children
sterility	n. state or quality of being sterile
sterilization	the act or procedure of sterilizing or making sterile
sterilize	to render sterile; make infertile or barren
sterling	(of coins or precious metal) of standard value and purity; genuine
stern	adj. serious and grim, not kind or cheerful; expecting to be obeyed
sternly	adj.
sternness	n.
stertorous	 adj. (of breathing or a person breathing) making a loud snoring noise
stethoscope	n. instrument used by doctors for listening to the beating of the heart, sounds of breathing, etc
stew	cook slowly in water or juice in a closed dish, pan, etc
steward	person employed to manage another's property, esp a large house or estate ,
stewardess	 a woman who performs a steward's job on an aircraft or shi
stick	short thin piece of wood used as a support, as a weapon or as firewood
stickiness	 n.
stickler	 n. ~ for sth person who thinks that a certain goal is very important and tries to make other people aim at it
stickpin	 n. = tie-pin (tie1)
sticky	that sticks or tends to stick to anything which touches it
stiff	not easily bent, folded, moved, changed in shape, etc
stiffen	v. ~ (up) (with sth) (cause sth to) become stiff or stiffer
stiffener	n. thing used to stiffen
stiffening	 n. material used to stiffen a piece of cloth or a garment
stiffness	n.
stifle	feel or make unable to breathe (easily) because of lack of fresh air; suffocate
stigma	mark of shame or disgrace; shameful feeling or reputation
stigmata	 n. marks resembling the wounds made by nails on the body of Christ when he was crucified, said to have appeared on the bodies of various saints and considered as a sign of holiness by some Christians ,
stigmatize	 describe smb scornfully
stiletto	small dagger or tool with a narrow pointed blade
still	(almost) without movement or sound; quiet and calm
stillness	n. quality of being still
stilt	either of a pair of poles, each with a support for the foot, on which a person can walk raised above the ground
stilted	adj. (of a manner of talking, writing, behaving, etc) stiff and unnatural; artificial
stimulant	drug that increases physical or mental activity and alertness
stimulate	v. ~ sb/sth make sb/sth more active or alert; arouse sb/sth
stimulated	to fill (a person) with ideas or enthusiasm
stimulating	adj. tending to stimulate; arousing
stimulation	n.
stimulus	thing that produces a reaction in living things
sting	sharp pointed organ of some insects and other animals, used for wounding and (usu) injecting poison
stinginess	 n.
stingy	 adj. spending, using or giving unwillingly; mean
stink	~ (of sth) have a very unpleasant and offensive smell
stinking	 adj. very bad or unpleasant; horrible
stint	v. ~ on sth; ~ sb/oneself (usu in negative sentences ) restrict, limit sb/oneself to a small amount of (esp food)
stipend	n. official income (esp of a clergyman); salary ;
stipple	v. paint, draw or engrave in small dots (not in lines, etc)
stipulate	v. state (sth) clearly and firmly as a requirement
stipulation	n. action of stipulating
stir	~ sth (with sth) move a spoon, etc round and round in (a liquid or some other substance) in order to mix it thoroughly
stitch	single passing of a needle and thread into and out of cloth, etc in sewing, or into and out of skin tissue, etc in surgery .
stock	store of goods available for sale, distribution or use, in a shop, warehouse, etc
stockade	 n. line or wall of strong upright posts, built as a defence
stockily	 adv: a stockily built man
stocking	either of a pair of tight-fitting coverings for the feet and legs, reaching to or above the knee
stocky	 adj. (usu of people) short, strong and solid in appearance
stodge	 n. food that is heavy, solid and not easy to digest
stodgy	(of food) heavy, solid and difficult to digest
stoic	n. person who has great self-control and who endures pain, discomfort or misfortune without complaining or showing signs of feeling it ,
stoical	adj. of or like a stoic; enduring pain, etc without complaint
stoicism	 n. behaving stoically
stoke	~ sth (with sth) put (coal or some other fuel) on the fire of a furnace, an engine, etc
stole	women's garment like a wide scarf, worn around the shoulders
stolen	 pp of steal
stolid	 adj. (of a person) not easily excited; showing little or no emotion or interest
stomach	bag-like organ of the body into which food passes when swallowed and in which the first part of digestion occurs
stone	hard solid mineral substance that is not metallic; (type of) rock
stonewall	obstruct (a discussion, etc) by non-committal, evasive or very long replies
stonily	adv. in a stonymanner
stony	full of, covered in or having stones
stood	pt, pp of stand
stool	seat without a back or arms, usu for one person
stoop	~ (down) bend forward and down
stop	put an end to (the movement, progress, operation, etc of a person or thing); cause to halt or pause
storage	storing of goods, etc
store	quantity or supply of sth kept for use as needed
storehouse	 building where things are stored
storeroom	a room in which things are stored
storey	section of a building with rooms all at the same level; floor
storm	occasion of violent weather conditions, with strong winds and usu rain or snow or thunder, etc
stormy	marked by or having strong winds, heavy rain, snow, hail, etc
story	~ account of past events, incidents, etc
stout	strong and thick
stouthearted	 having a stout heart or spirit:STUBBORN
stove	apparatus containing one or more ovens, used for cooking
stowaway	 n. person who hides himself in a ship or aircraft before its departure, in order to travel without paying or being seen
straddle	sit or stand across with both legs wide apart
straggle	grow or spread in an irregular or untidy manner
straggler	n. person who straggles
straight	without a bend or curve; extending or moving continuously in one direction only
straighten	~ (up/out) (cause sth to) become straight
straightforward	honest and frank, without evasion
straightforwardly adv: behave, speak straightforwardly
	straightforwardly adv: behave, speak straightforwardly
straightforwardness n.
	straightforwardness n.
strain	stretch tightly by pulling
strained	unnatural, forced and artificial; not easy or relaxed
strait	narrow passage of water connecting two seas or two large areas of water
straiten	 to embarrass or distress, esp. financially
straitened	 adj. in straitened `circumstances (fml esp euph , ) having scarcely enough money to live on; in poverty ;
straits	a narrow channel of the sea linking two larger areas of sea
strand	 n. sandy shore of a lake, sea or river ,
stranded	 adj. left in difficulties, eg without money, friends or transport
strange	not previously known, seen, felt, heard of, etc; not familiar or of one's own
stranger	person that one does not know
strangle	kill by squeezing or gripping the throat tightly; throttle
strangler	n. person who strangles sb
strangulation	strangling or being strangled
strap	strip of leather, cloth or other flexible material, often with a buckle, used to fasten things together or to keep things in place or to support, hold or hang sth by
strata	 pl of stratum
stratagem	n. trick, plan or scheme to deceive sb (esp an enemy)
strategic	of strategy; forming part of a plan or scheme
strategically	adv: a strategically placed microphone
strategist	 n. person skilled in strategy
strategy	planning and directing an operation in a war or campaign
stratified	 [ stratify: ] to form or be formed in layers or strata
stratify	 v. arrange (sth) in strata or grades, etc
stratosphere	 n. layer of the earth's atmosphere between about 10 and 60 kilometres above the surface of the earth , 1060
stratum	any of a series of horizontal layers, esp of rock in the earth's crust
straw	cut and dried stalks of grain plants used as a material for thatching roofs, making hats, mats, etc and as bedding and food for animals
strawberry	 n. soft juicy red fruit with tiny yellow seeds on the surface
stray	move away from one's group, proper place, etc with no fixed destination or purpose; wander
streak	long thin mark, line or band of a different substance or colour from its surroundings
streaky	adj. marked with, having or full of streaks
stream	small river or large brook
streamlet	Rivulet.
streamline	give a streamlined form to
streamlined	adj. having a smooth even shape so as to be able to move quickly and easily through air, water, etc
streamlining	 [ streamline: ] a contour on a body that offers the minimum resistance to a gas or liquid flowing around it
street	public road in a city, town or village with houses and buildings on one side or both sides
strength	quality of being strong; degree of intensity of this
strengthen	 v. become stronger
strengthened	to make or become stronger
strenuous	making great efforts; energetic
strenuously	adv: She strenuously denies all the charges
stress	mental or physical distress, difficult circumstances, etc
stressful	adj. causing stress
stretch	make longer, wider or tighter by pulling
stretchy	 adj. (infml ) that can be stretched; tending to become stretched
strew	v. ~ A (on/over B); ~ B with A scatter sth (over a surface); cover (a surface) with scattered things; sprinkle
striate	to mark with striations or striae
striated	 adj. marked with stripes, lines or furrows
striation	stripe, line or furrow
stricken	 adj. ~ (esp in compounds ) affected or overcome (by sth unpleasant, eg illness, grief)
strict	demanding total obedience or observance (of rules, ways of behaving, etc); severe; not lenient
strictly	in a strict manner; completely
stricture	(fml ) severe criticism or condemnation
stride	walk with long steps (in the specified direction)
stridency	(n.) harshness or shrillness sound
strident	 adj. loud and harsh; shrill
stridulate	 v. make high-pitched chirping sounds by rubbing together certain parts of the body
strife	 n. state of conflict; angry or violent disagreement; quarrelling
strike	organized stopping of work by employees because of a disagreement (eg over pay, conditions, etc); act or instance of striking (strike
striking	attracting attention or interest
string	thin cord made of twisted threads; twine
stringency	 Strictness.
stringent	that must be obeyed; strict or severe
strings	[ string: ] a thin length of cord, twine, fibre, or similar material used for tying, hanging, binding, etc.
strip	~ sth (from/off sth/sb); ~ sth/sb (of sth); ~ sth (off) take off (clothes, coverings, parts, etc) from sb/sth
stripe	long narrow band on a surface that is usu different from it in colour, material or texture
stripling	n. male person between boyhood and manhood; youth or lad
stripped	 [ strip: ] to take or pull (the covering, clothes, etc.) off (oneself, another person, or thing)
strive	~ (for/after sth) try very hard (to obtain or achieve sth)
striving	to make a great and tenacious effort
strode	 pt of stride
stroke	act or process of striking; blow
stroll	 n. slow leisurely walk
strolling	[ stroll: ] to walk about in a leisurely manner
strong	not easily broken, hurt, injured, captured, etc; solid and sturdy
strongly	 [ strong: ] involving or possessing physical or mental strength
strong-minded	adj. having a determined mind
strove	 pt of strive
struck	 pt, pp of strike
structural	 adj. of a structure or the framework of a structure
structure	way in which sth is put together, organized, built, etc
struggle	~ (with sb) fight (with sb)
strum	v. ~ (on sth) play (a stringed instrument), esp rather unskilfully or monotonously
strut	n. rod or bar placed in a framework to strengthen and brace it
strychnine	 n. poisonous substance used in very small doses to stimulate the nerves
stubborn	determined not to give way; strong-willed; obstinate
stubbornly	 adv: stubbornly refuse to do it
student	person who is studying for a degree, diploma, etc at a university or some other place of higher education or technical training
studied	adj. carefully considered; intentional; deliberate
studio	 ,
studious	spending a lot of time studying
study	process of gaining knowledge of a subject, esp from books
stuff	material of which sth is made
stuffy	(of a room, etc) not having much fresh air
stultify	cause (sth) to be ineffective or seem absurd; negate
stumble	~ strike one's foot against sth and almost fall
stump	part of a tree left in the ground after the rest has fallen or been cut down
stun	make (a person or an animal) unconscious by a blow, esp to the head
stung	pt, pp of sting2
stunk	pp of stink1
stunning	 adj. impressive; splendid
stunt	n. thing done to attract attention
stuntman	 fem stuntwoman
stupefy	make numb; stun; amaze
stupendous	 adj. amazingly large, impressive, good, etc
stupid	slow to learn or understand things; not intelligent or clever
stupidity	state of being stupid
stupor	 n. condition of being dazed or nearly unconscious caused by shock, drugs, alcohol, etc
sturdily	 adv: a sturdily built bicycle, man
sturdy	strong and solid
stutter	v. = stammer
stutterer	n. person who stutters
stygian	adj. very dark; gloomy
style	manner of writing or speaking, esp contrasted with what is actually written or said
stylish	adj. having style(3); fashionable
stylize	to give a conventional or established stylistic form to
stylus	sharp needle tipped with diamond or sapphire, used to reproduce sound by resting in the groove of a record as it turns on a record-player
stymie	situation on the green in which an opponent's ball is between one's own ball and the hole
styptic	n, adj checking the flow of blood
suasion	The act of persuading.
suave	adj. (usu of a man) having self-confidence and smooth sophisticated manners
suavity	[ suave: ]
sub	submarine
subacid	Somewhat sharp or biting.
subaltern	n. any officer in the army below the rank of captain
subaquatic	 Being, formed, or operating under water.
subconscious	 adj. of or concerning the thoughts, instincts, fears, etc in the mind, of which one is not fully aware but which influence one's actions
subcutaneous	 adj. under the skin
subdivide	v. ~ (into sth) (cause sth to) be divided again into smaller divisions
subdue	bring under control by force; defeat
subdued	not very loud, intense, noticeable, etc
subjacent	Situated directly underneath.
subject	person or thingthat is being discussed or described (in speech or writing),or represented, eg in a painting; topic; theme
subjection	 n. subjecting or being subjected
subjective	existing in the mind and not produced by things outside the mind
subjectivity	 n.
subjugate	v. gain controlof (a country, etc); subdue; conquer ;
sublimate	express (instinctual urges, esp sexual ones) in more socially acceptable ways
sublime	of the greatest, most admirable kind; causing awe and reverence
subliminal	 adj. being perceivedor affecting the mind without one being aware of it
sublingual	 Situated beneath the tongue.
submarine	naval vessel that can operate underwater as well as onthe surface
submerge	go under the surface of a liquid, the sea, etc
submergence	submersion / sEb5m\
submerse	 [ submerge: ] to plunge, sink, or dive or cause to plunge, sink, or dive below the surface of water, etc.
submersible	n, adj that can be submerged
submission	acceptance of another`s power; submitting
submissive	 adj. willing to yield to the authority of others; obedient
submit	~ (to sb/sth) accept the control, superior strength, etc (of sb/sth); yield (to sb/sth) ; ,
suborder	a taxonomic group that is a subdivision of an order
subordinate	adj. ~ (to sb) lower in rank or position
subordination	n.
suborn	 v. use bribery or some other means to persuade (sb) to do sth illegal, esp tell lies in a court of law
subpoena	 n. written order requiring a person to appear in a lawcourt
subscribe	~ (to sth) (agree to) contribute (a sum of money)
subscript	(of a character) written or printed below the line
subscription	subscribing or being subscribed
subsequent	 adj. later; following
subsequently	 adv. afterwards
subservience	 The quality, character, or condition of being servilely following another's behests.
subservient	(often derog ) giving too much respect, obedience, etc; submissive
subside	sink to a lower or to the normal level
subsidence	process of subsiding
subsidiary	 adj. 1~ connected to but smaller, of less importance,etc than sth else; subordinate
subsidization	[ subsidize: ] to aid or support with a subsidy
subsidize	to aid or support with a subsidy
subsidy	n. money paid, esp by a government, to help an industry, to support the arts, to keep prices down, etc
subsist	v. ~ (fml ) (continue to) stay alive, esp with little food or money; exist
subsistence	n. subsisting
subspecies	 adj. "subspe'cifically adve
substance	particular type of matter
substantial	large in amount; considerable
substantially	considerably; greatly
substantiate	 v. give facts to support (a claim, statement, etc); prove
substantiated	[ substantiate: ] to establish as valid or genuine
substantiation	 n.
substantive	adj. genuine or actual; real
substantively	a noun or pronoun used in place of a noun
substitute	 n. ~ person or thing that replaces, acts for or serves as sb or sth else
substrate	the substance upon which an enzyme acts
substratum	 n. level lying below another
subsume	v. ~ sth (fml ) include sth in a particular group, class, etc or under a rule
subtend	v. (of a chord
subterfuge	 n. trick or excuse, esp one used to avoid difficulties, blame, failure, etc
subterranean	 adj. underthe earth's surface; underground
subtitle	secondary title of a book, etc
subtle	not easy to detect or describe; fine; delicate
subtlety	quality of being subtle
subtly	 adv.
subtract	 v. ~ sth take (a number or quantity) away from (another number, etc)
subtraction	process of subtracting
subtrahend	 That which is to be subtracted.
suburb	 n. district outside the central part of a town or city
suburban	of or in a suburb
suburbanite	n. person who lives in the suburbs
suburbanize	to make suburba
subvention	,
subversion	 An overthrow, as from the foundation.
subversive	 adj. ~ trying or likely to weaken or destroy a political system, an accepted belief, etc
subvert	destroy the authority of
subway	underground pedestrian tunnel, esp one beneath a road or railway
succeed	~ do what one is trying to do; achieve thedesired end
success	achievement of a desired end, or of fame, wealth or social position; succeeding
successful	 adj. having success
successfully	 adv.
succession	number of things or people coming one after the other in time or order; series
successive	 adj. coming one after the other in an unbroken series
successively	 adv.
successor	n. ~ person or thing that comes after and takes the place of (sb/sth)
succinct	 adj. expressedbriefly and clearly; concise
succinctly	 adv.
succinctness	 n.
succor	 to go to the aid of:RELIEVE
succubus	 n. female demon said to have sexual intercourse with sleeping males
succulent	(of fruit and meat) juicy and delicious
succumb	v. ~ (fml ) stop resisting (temptation, illness, attack, etc); yield
such	(referring back ) of the kind specified earlier
suck	draw (liquid or air, etc) into the mouth by using the lip muscles
suckle	 v. feed with milk from the breast or udder
suckling	 n. out of the mouths of babes and sucklings
sudden	happening, coming or done quickly and unexpectedly
suddenly	 adv.
sue	~ (for sth) make a legal claim (against sb)
suede	n. type of soft leather with one side rubbed so that it has a soft roughened surface
suffer	~ feel pain, discomfort, great sorrow, etc
sufferance	 n. on `sufferance tolerated but not actually wanted
sufferer	 n. person who suffers
suffering	pain of body or mind
suffice	~ (not in the continuous tenses ) (fml ) be enough (for sb/sth); be adequate
sufficiency	n. ~ of sth sufficient quantity of sth
sufficient	 adj. ~ enough
sufficiently	 adv: not sufficiently careful
suffocate	die as a result of not being able to breathe
suffrage	 n. right to vote in political elections
suffragist	 advocate of voting rights (for women)
suffuse	v. ~ sth (esp of colour or moisture) spread all over sth
sugar	sweet substance obtained from the juices of various plants, used in cooking and for sweetening tea, coffee, etc
suggest	~ sb (for sth); ~ sb/sth (as sth) put sth/sb forward for consideration
suggestible	adj. easily influenced
suggestion	suggesting or being suggested
suggestive	~ putting particular ideas or associations into sb's mind
suicide	killing oneself intentionally
suit	set of outer garments of the same material, usu a jacket and trousers for a man and a jacket and skirt for a woman
suitability	suitableness ns
suitable	 adj. ~ right or appropriatefor a purpose or an occasion
suitably	 adv: go to a party suitably dressed
suitcase	 n. case with flat sides, used for carrying clothes, etc when travelling
suite	set of matching pieces of furniture
suitor	 n. man courting a woman
sulfur	 = sulphur
sulk	 v. ~ (derog ) be silent or unsociable as a result of bad temper or resentment
sulkiness	n.
sulky	adj. having or showing a tendency to sulk
sullen	silent, bad-tempered and gloomy
sullenness	 n.
sully	v. (fml or rhet usu fig , ) make (sth) dirty; stain; ruin or destroy (sb's reputation, etc)
sulphur	n. chemical element, a light-yellow non-metallic solid that burns with a bright flame and a strong smell, used in medicine and industry
sultry	(of the weather, air, etc) oppressively hot and humid
sum	arithmetical calculation
summarily	adv: summarily dismissed
summarization	[ summarize: ] to make or be a summary of; express concisely
summarize	to make or be a summary of; express concisely
summary	brief statement of themain points of sth
summation	summing-up; summary
summer	the second and warmest season of the year outside the tropics, coming between spring and autumn, ie from June to August inthe northern hemisphere
summit	highest point; top, esp of a mountain
summon	~ sb (to sth); ~ sb (together) send a message telling sb to come; call (people) together
sumptuous	adj. looking expensive and splendid
sun	the star around which the earth orbits and from which it receives lightand warmth
Sunday	the first day of the week (coming before Monday), a day of rest and worship for Christians
sunder	 v. ~ sth/sb (fml or rhet ) separate sth/sb, esp by force or for ever
sundry	various
sung	 pp of sing
sunk	 pt, pp of sink1
sunken	that has gone to the bottom of the sea
sunlight	 n. light of the sun
sunny	bright with sunlight; receiving much sunlight
sunrise	n. rising of the sun; dawn
sunset	setting of the sun
sunshine	light and heat of the sun
super	adj. excellent; splendid
superabundance	 n. ~ (fml ) amount that is more than enough
superabundant	very abundant; more than enough
superadd	 To add in addition to what has been added.
superannuate	 v. send into retirement with a pension
superannuated	adj. old and barely fit for work or use
superannuation	 n. superannuating
superb	 adj. excellent; splendid
superbly	 adv.
supercilious	 adj. thinking or showing that one thinks one is better than other people; arrogant and disdainful
supererogatory	 superfluous; more than needed or demanded
superficial	of or on the surface only
superficiality	 n.
superficially	adv: only superficially alike
superfluity	n. ~ (fml ) superfluous amount
superfluous	adj. more than is needed or wanted
superheat	To heat to excess.
superimpose	v. ~ sth put sth on top of sth else, esp so that what is underneath can still be seen, heard, etc
superintend	v. manage and control (workers, their work, etc); supervise
superintendence	n. superintending
superintendent	person who superintends
superior	better than average
superiority	n. ~ ~ (to/over sth/sb) state of being superior
superlative	of the highest degree or quality
supermarket	n. large shop selling food, household goods, etc which one takes from the shelves oneself and pays for at the exit
supernal	 of or from the world of the divine; celestial
supernatural	 adj. that cannot be explained by natural or physical laws; of the world of spirits, magic, etc
supernova	n. (astronomy) star that suddenly becomes very much brighter as a result of an explosion
supernumerary	adj. in excess of the normal number; extra
supersede	v. take the place of be introduced so as to be used instead of (sth/sb)
superseded	 [ supersede: ] to take the place of (something old-fashioned or less appropriate); supplant
supersonic	 adj. faster than the speed of sound
superstition	belief that certain events cannot be explained by human reason or physical laws; irrational fear of what is unknown or mysterious
superstructure	structure built on top of sth else, eg the part of a building above the ground ,
supervene	v. occur as an interruption or change
supervise	v. watch or otherwise keep a check on to make sure it is done properly
supervision	n. supervising or being supervised
supervisor	 n. person who supervises
supervisory	adj. supervising
supine	lying flat on the back,face upwards
supper	 n. last meal of the day, usu less large and less formal than dinner
supplant	 v. take the place of (sb/sth); replace
supple	 adj. bent or bending easily; not stiff; flexible
supplement	~ thing added to sth else to improve or complete it
supplementary	additional; extra
suppleness	 n.
suppliant	n, adj (person) asking humbly for sth
supplicant	 n. person who supplicates; suppliant
supplicate	 v. ~ sth (fml ) ask (sb) humbly or pleadingly for sth
supplication	 n. (act of) supplicating
supplier	 n. person or firm supplying goods, etc
supply	~ sth (to sb); ~ sb (with sth) give sb sth that is needed or useful; provide sb with sth
support	v. bear the weight of (sth/sb); hold in position; carry
supportable	that can be supported
supportive	 adj. giving help, encouragement or sympathy
suppose	accept as true or probable; believe; imagine; assume
supposition	supposing
supposititious	 assumed; counterfeit; hypothetical
suppress	put an end to (sth), esp by force; crush
suppressed	 [ suppress: ] to put an end to; prohibit
suppressible	 adj. that can be suppressed
suppression	n. suppressing or being suppressed
suppurate	v. (of a wound, etc) have a thick yellow liquid (pus) forming inside it because of infection
supremacy	n. ~ being supreme; position of the highest power, authority or status
supreme	highest in authority, rank or degree
surcharge	~ payment that is demanded in addition to the usual charge
sure	~ (of/about sth); ~ that...; ~ what, etc... not doubting or seeming to doubt what one believes, knows, etc; confident that one is right
surely	without doubt; certainly
surety	guarantee that sb will pay his debts, perform a duty, etc
surf	 n. waves breaking on the seashore
surface	outside of an object
surfeit	n. ~ (of sth) too much of sth, esp of food and drink
surge	move forward in or like waves
surgeon	n. doctor who performs surgical operations
surgery	treatment of injuries or diseases by cutting or removing parts of the body
surly	adj. bad-tempered and unfriendly
surmise	v. suppose (sth) without having evidence that makes it certain; guess
surmount	deal with (a difficulty, etc); overcome
surmountable	 adj. that can be overcome
surname	n. name shared by all the members of a family
surpass	~ sb/sth (in sth) (fml ) do or be better than sb/sth; exceed sb/sth
surplus	amount left over after one has used all that one needs; amount by which money received is greater than money spent
surprise	feeling caused by sth happening suddenly or unexpectedly
surprising	 adj. causing surprise
surprisingly	 [ surprising: ] adj. causing surprise; unexpected or amazing
surreal	adj. unlike reality, esp in having combinations or strange distortions of things, as in a dream; fantastic; bizarre
surrealism	 n. 20th-century movement in art and literature that tries to express what is in the subconscious mind by showing objects and events as seen in dreams, etc 20,
surrealist	 n, adj of surrealism
surrender	~ (to sb) stop resisting an enemy, etc; yield; give up
surreptitious	adj. done or acting secretly or stealthily
surreptitiously	adv.
surrogate	n. ~ (fml ) person or thing that acts or is used instead of another; substitute
surround	 To encircle.
surrounding	adj. that is around and nearby
surroundings	the conditions, scenery, etc., around a person, place, or thing; environmen
surveillance	 n. careful watch kept on sb suspected of doing wrong
survey	look carefully at all of (sth/sb), esp from a distance
surveyor	person who surveys and values buildings, etc
survival	state of continuing to live or exist; surviving
survive	~ ~ (on sth) continue to live or exist
survivor	 n. person who has survived
susceptibilities [ susceptibility: ] the quality or condition of being susceptible
	susceptibilities [ susceptibility: ] the quality or condition of being susceptible
susceptibility	~ state of being susceptible
susceptible	~ to sth easily influenced or harmed by sth
suspect	have an idea of the existence, presence or truth of (sth); believe
suspend	~ sth (fml ) hang sth up
suspended	[ suspend: ] vt. to hang from above so as to permit free movement
suspender	short elastic strap for holding up a sock or stocking by its top
suspense	 n. feeling of tenseness, worry, etc about what may happen
suspension	suspending or being suspended
suspicion	suspecting or being suspected
suspicious	~ having or showing suspicion
sustain	bear (weight) without breaking or falling
sustained	unfailing
sustenance	 n. food and drink; nourishment
suture	 n. stitch or stitches made in sewing up a wound, esp following an operation ,
svelte	 adj. (of a person) gracefully thin
swagger	v. walk or behave in a proud or boastful way
swallow	cause or allow (esp food or drink) to go down the throat
swam	 pt of swim
swamp	n. soft wet land; marsh ;
swampy	 adj. (-ier, -iest)
swan	large graceful water-bird with a long thin neck .
swank	v. behave or talk in a boastful way; swagger
swap	~ (sth) (with sb);~ (sb) sth for sth; ~ sth (over/round) give sth in exchange for sth else; substitute sth for sth else
swarm	large number of insects, birds, etc moving around together, esp bees following a queen bee
swarthy	adj. dark or dark-skinned
swath	the width of one sweep of a scythe or of the blade of a mowing machine
swathe	strip of grass or other plants cut by a mower, scythe, etc
sway	move or lean slowly from side to side
swear	v. ~ (at sb/sth) use rude or blasphemous words in anger, surprise, etc; curse
swear-word	 n. rude or blasphemous word
sweat	natural moisture which comes through the skin when one is hot, ill, afraid, working hard, etc
sweater	n. = jersey 1
sweaty	covered or damp with sweat
sweep	~ sth (from, off, into, etc sth); ~ sth (away, up, etc) remove (dust, dirt, etc) with or as if with a broom or brush
sweeping	having an extremely wide effect; far reaching
sweet	tasting like sugar or honey; not sour, bitter or salty
sweeten	become sweet or sweeter
sweetener	substance used to sweeten food or drink, esp as a substitute for sugar
sweetening	 n. substance, eg sugar, used to sweeten food or drink
sweetness	quality of being sweet
swell	~(to sth); ~ (sth) (up) (with sth) (cause sth to) becomelarger or bulge outwards, eg because of pressure from inside
swelling	condition of being swollen
swelter	v. be uncomfortably hot; suffer from the heat
sweltering	 oppressively hot
swept	pt, pp of sweep1
swerve	 v. change direction suddenly
swift	adj. ~ (to do sth/in doing sth) quick or rapid; prompt
swiftly	adv.
swiftness	n.
swig	 v. ~ sth (down) (infml ) take a drink or drinks of (esp alcohol), usu in large gulps
swill	~ sth (out/down) (esp Brit) rinse or flush sth by pouring large amounts of water, etc into, over or through it
swim	move the body through water by using arms, legs, fins, tail, etc
swimmer	n. person who swims
swindle	v. ~ sb/sth (out of sth) cheat sb/sth, esp in a business transaction
swindler	 n. person who swindles
swine	pigs
swing	v. (cause sb/sth to) move to and fro while hanging or supported
swipe	~ (at) sth/sb (try to) hit sth/sb with a swinging or reckless blow
swirl	v. move or flow with twists and turns and with varying speed
swirling	 [ swirl: ] to turn or cause to turn in a twisting spinning fashion
Swiss	adj. of Switzerland, its people or its dialects
switch	device for completing or breaking an electric circuit
swollen	pp of swell
swoop	~ (on sb/sth) come down suddenly with a rushing movement
sword	weapon with a long thin metal blade and a protected handle
swore	pt of swear
sworn	pp of swear
swot	 v. ~ (up) (for/on sth); ~ sth up (Brit infml often derog , ) study sth very hard, esp in preparation for an exam
swum	 pp of swim
swung	pt, pp of swing
sybarite	 n. person who is very fond of luxury and comfort
sybaritic	adj. typical of a sybarite
sycophant	n. person who tries to gain people's favour by insincerely flattering them and always agreeing with them
sycophantic	adj. a sycophantic smile
syllabic	of or in syllables
syllabication	Division of words into that which is uttered in a single vocal impulse.
syllable	any of the units into which a word may be divided, usu consisting of a vowel-sound with a consonant before or after
syllabus	 n. list of subjects, topics, texts, etc included in a course of study
syllogism	n. form of reasoning in which a conclusion is drawn from two statements, eg All men must die; I am a man; therefore I must die
syllogistic	adj. in the form of or being a syllogism
sylph	one of a type of female nature spirits believed to inhabit the air
sylphlike	adj. slender and graceful
sylvan	 => silvan
symbioses	An organism in a symbiotic relationship
symbiosis	n. relationship between two species, organisms,etc that live close together and depend on each other in various ways
symbol	~ image, object, etc that suggests or refers to sth else; emblem
symbolic	adjs ~ of, using or used as a symbol
symbolism	n. use of symbols to represent things, esp in art and literature; the symbols thus used
symbolize	vt. to serve as or be a symbol
symbols	[ symbol: ] something that represents or stands for something else, usually by convention or association, esp. a material object used to represent something abstract
symmetric	symmetrical adjs having two halves whichare the same in size and shape
symmetrical	Well-balanced.
symmetry	exact match in size and shape between the two halves of sth
sympathetic	~ feeling, showing or resulting fromsympathy
sympathetically	adv.
sympathize	 To share the sentiments or mental states of another.
sympathy	~ (capacity for) sharing the feelings of others; feeling of pity and sorrow (for sb)
symphonic	adj. of or like a symphony
symphonious	Marked by a harmonious or agreeable mingling of sounds.
symphony	 n. long complex musical composition, usu in three or four parts for a large orchestra
symposium	small conference for discussion of a particular subject
symptom	change in the body that indicates an illness
symptomatic	adj. ~ being a symptom
synapse	the point at which a nerve impulse is relayed from the terminal portion of an axon to the dendrites of an adjacent neuro
synchronism	Simultaneousness.
synchronize	to occur or recur or cause to occur or recur at the same time or in unison
synchronous	similary timed; simultaneous with
syncopate	v. change in a piece of music so that a strong beat becomes weak and a weak beat becomes strong
syncopation	n.
syndicate	n. group of people or business companies combined to undertake a joint project
syndrome	any combination of signs and symptoms that are indicative of a particular disease or disorder
syneresis	The coalescence of two vowels or syllables, as e'er for ever.
synergic	 working together:COOPERATING
synod	,
synonym	n. word or phrase with the same meaning as another in the same language, though perhaps with a different style, grammar or technical use
synonymous	 adj. ~ having the same meaning
synopsis	 n. summary or outline of a book, play, etc
synoptic	 adj. of or forming a synopsis
syntactic	adj. of syntax
syntactically	adv: a syntactically complex written style
syntax	 n. (rules for the) arrangement of words into phrases and phrases into sentences
synthesis	n. combining of separate parts, elements, etc to form a complex whole
synthesize	 to combine or cause to combine into a whole
synthetic	made by synthesis(
syringe	any of various types of device for taking liquid in and forcing it out again in a thin stream, used for spraying plants, washing wounds, etc
system	group of things or parts working together as a whole
systematic	done or acting according to a system or plan; methodical
systematically	 adv.
systematize	to arrange in a system
systemic	of or affecting the whole of the body
tabernacle	the tabernacle the portable shrine used by the Israelites during their wanderings in the wilderness
table	piece of furniture consisting of a flat top supported on one or more legs
tableau	n. representation of a picture or scene by a silent and motionless group of people, esp on stage
tablecloth	 a cloth for covering the top of a table, esp. during meal
tableland	flat elevated land; a platea
tablet	slab or panel with words cut or written on it, esp one fixed to a wall as a memorial ,
tabloid	n. popular newspaper withpages that are half the size of those of larger newspapers
taboo	(in certain cultures) ban or prohibition on sth that is regarded for religious or other reasons as not to be done, touched, used, etc ,
tabulate	 v. arrange in the form of a table(5) or list
tabulator	person or thing that tabulates
tachometer	 any device for measuring speed, esp. the rate of revolution of a shaft. Tachometers (rev counters) are often fitted to cars to indicate the number of revolutions per minute of the engine
tacit	adj. understoodwithout being put into words; implied
taciturn	 adj. saying very little; uncommunicative ;
taciturnity	n.
tack	small nail with a broad head
tackiness	n.
tackle	set of ropes and pulleys for working a ship's sails or for lifting weights
tacky	(of paint, glue, etc) slightly sticky; not quite dry
tact	 n. skill at not offending people or at gaining goodwill by saying or doing the right thing
tactful	adj. having or showing tact
tactic	means of achieving sth; expedient
tactical	 adj. of tactics
tactically	 adv: vote tactically
tactician	n. expert in tactics
tactile	adj. of or using the sense of touch
tactless	 adj. lacking tact
tactlessness	 n.
tad	small child, esp a young boy
tadpole	n. form of a frog or toad at the stage when it lives under water and has gills and a tail
tag	metal or plastic point at the end of a shoe-lace, etc
tail	movable part at the end of the body of a bird, an animal, a fish or a reptile
tailless	 adj. having no tail
tailor	 n. maker of men's clothes, esp one who makes coats, jackets, etc for individual customers
tailwind	 a wind blowing in the same direction as the course of an aircraft or ship
taint	n. trace of some bad quality or decay or infection
tainted	[ taint: ] to affect or be affected by pollution or contamination
take	~sb/sth (with one); ~ sth (to sb) carry sb/sth or accompany sb from one place to another
take liberties with 
	take liberties with 
take off	 (of an aeroplane, a helicopter, etc) leave the ground and begin to fly
taking	 adj. attractive; charming ;
tale	narrative or story
talent	~ (instance of) special or very great ability
talented	 adj. having talent; gifted
talentless	 adj. without talent; not talented ;
talisman	 n. object that is thought to bring good luck, eg a ring or locket
talk	conversation; discussion
talkative	adj. fond of talking
talkativeness	n.
tall	(of people or objects) of more than average height; of objects whose height is greater than their width; higher than surrounding objects
tally	score; reckoning
talon	n. claw, esp of a bird of prey
tambourine	 n. percussion instrument that consists of a small shallow drum with jingling metal discs set in the rim, and is played by shaking or hitting with the hand ,
tame	(of animals) gentle and unafraid of human beings; not wild or fierce
tamp	 v. tamp sth down tap or ram sth down tightly
tamper	 v. ~ with sth meddle or interfere with sth; alter sth without authority
tan	convert (animal skin) into leather by treating it with tannic acid, etc
tang	 n. sharp taste, flavour or smell, esp one that is characteristic of sth
tangency	 The state of touching.
tangent	straight line that touches the outside of a curve but does not cross it .
tangential	 peripheral; only slightly connected; digressing
tangible	that can be perceived by touch
tangle	confused mass
tangled	adj. tangled hair, wire, undergrowth
tango	n. (music for a) ballroom dance with gliding steps and a strongly marked rhythm
tangy	adj. (-ier, -iest)
tank	large container, usu for liquid or gas
tankard	n. large drinking mug with a handle, esp one for beer
tanker	 n. ship or aircraft for carrying petroleum, etc in bulk
tanner	 n. person who tans skins to make leather
tannery	n. place where skins are tanned to make leather
tantalize	 the view but continually keeping it out of reach
tantalizingly	[ tantalize: ] to tease or make frustrated, as by tormenting with the sight of something greatly desired but inaccessible
tantamount	 adj. ~ to sth equal in effect to sth; as good as sth
tantrum	n. outburst of bad temper, esp in a child
tanyard	n. (tannery)
tap	device for controlling the flow of liquid or gas out of a pipe or container
tape	narrow strip of material used for tying, fastening or labelling things
taper	n. length of wax-covered thread like a very thin candle burned to give light or to light other candles, etc
tapestry	 n. cloth into which threads of coloured wool are woven or embroidered by hand to make pictures or designs, used for covering walls and furniture
tapeworm	 n. tape-like worm that lives as a parasite in the intestines of man and other animals
tapir	n. small pig-like animal of tropical America and Malaysia, with a long flexible nose
tar	thick black sticky liquid, hard when cold, obtained from coal, etc and used in making roads, to preserve timber, etc
tarantula	n. any of several types of large spider, many of them hairy and some of them poisonous ,
tardiness	n.
tardy	slow to act, move or happen
tare	weight of the container in which goods are packed, or of the vehicle carrying them
target	object or mark that a person tries to hit in shooting, etc; disc marked with concentric circles for this purpose in archery ; .
tariff	list of fixed charges, esp for rooms, meals, etc at a hotel
tarn	 n. small mountain lake
tarnish	lose its brightness by being exposed to air or damp
tarnished	lost brightness
tarpaulin	n. canvas made waterproof, esp by being treated with tar
tarry	v. (arch or rhet ) delay in coming to or going from a place; linger
tart	sharp-tasting; acid
task	piece of work that has to be done
tassel	 n. bunch of threads tied at one end and hanging as an ornament
taste	sensation caused in the tongue by things placed on it
tasty	adj. having a strong and pleasant flavour; appetizing
tatter	 to make or become ragged or worn to shreds
tattered	 adj. ragged
tattle	 v. chatter or gossip idly; reveal information by doing this
tatty	shabby and untidy; ragged
taught	 pt, pp of teach
taunt	v. ~ sb try to provoke sb with scornful or critical remarks; jeer at sb
taut	tightly stretched; not slack
tauten	 v. become taut
tautological	 tautologous / tR
tautology	n. saying the same thing more than once in different ways withoutmaking one's meaning clearer or more forceful; needlessrepetition ;
tavern	 n. inn or public house
tawdry	 adj. showy or gaudy but without real value
tawny	adj. brownish-yellow
tax	money to be paid by people or businesses to a government for publicpurposes
taxation	 n. raising money by taxes; taxes to be paid
taxi	 n. car that may be hired for journeys, esp one with a meter that records the fare to be paid
taxidermist	n. person who practises taxidermy
taxidermy	n. art of preparing and stuffing the skins of dead animals, birds and fish so that they look like living ones
taxing	 onerous, wearing
taxonomic	the branch of biology concerned with the classification of organisms into groups based on similarities of structure, origin, etc.
taxonomist	 one who study the general principles of scientific classification
taxonomy	 n. scientificprocess of classifying living things
tea	evergreen shrub grown in China, India, etc
teach	v. give instruction to (sb); cause (sb) to know or be able to do sth
teacher	n. person who teaches, esp in a school
teaching	work of a teacher; instruction
teal	 n. small wild duck living near rivers or lakes
team	group of players forming one side in certain games and sports
teapot	container with a spout, in which tea is made and from which it is poured into cups, etc .
tear	drop of salty water coming from the eye, esp as the result of grief, irritation by fumes, etc
tearful	adj. crying or ready to cry
tease	make fun of in aplayful or unkind way; try to provoke (sb) with questionsor petty annoyances
teasing	[ tease: ] to annoy (someone) by deliberately offering something with the intention of delaying or withdrawing the offer
teasingly	adv. in a teasing manner; in order to tease ;
teaspoonful	n. amount that a teaspoon can hold
teat	animal's nipple
technic	Technical.
technical	of or involving the mechanical arts and applied sciences
technicality	technical term or point
technically	with reference to thetechnique displayed
technician	expert in the techniques of a particular subject, art or craft
technique	n. method of doing or performing sth, esp in the arts or sciences
technocracy	n. control or management of a country's industrial resourcesby technical experts
technocrat	 n. expert inscience, engineering, etc, esp one who favours technocracy
technological	* technological changes, problems
technologically	adv: technologically advanced
technologist	 n. expert in technology
technology	scientificstudy and use of mechanical arts and applied sciences, eg engineering
tectonic	 denoting or relating to construction or building
tectonics	the art and science of construction or building
tedious	adj. tiresome because of being too long, slow or dull; boring
tedium	 n. tediousness; boredom
teem	~ with sth have sth in great numbers
teenage	adj. of orfor teenagers
teenaged	 adj. in one's teens
teenager	 n. person in his or her teens
teeter	 v. stand or moveunsteadily
teeth	pl of tooth
teetotal	 adj. never drinking alcoholic drinks
teetotalism	the principle or practice of complete abstinence from alcoholic drinks
teetotaller	n. person who is teetotal
telegram	 n. message sent by telegraph and then delivered in written or printed form
telegraph	n. means of sending messages by the use of electric current along wires
telemetry	n. process of automatically recording the readings of an instrument and transmitting them over a distance, usu by radio
teleologist	n. person who believes in teleology
teleology	n. theory that events and developments are meant to fulfil a purpose and happen because of that
telepathic	 adj. of or using telepathy
telepathy	communication of thoughts or ideas from one mind to another withoutthe normal use of the senses
telephone	system of transmitting the human voice to a distance by wire or radio
telephony	n. process of transmitting sound by telephone
telescope	n. optical instrument shaped like a tube, with lenses to make distant objects appear larger and nearer
teletext	 n. computerized service providing news and other information on the television screens of subscribers
television	process of transmitting and reproducing on a screen events, scenes, plays, etc in pictures and sound, using radio signals
telex	system of communication using teleprinters
tell	~ sth (to sb) make sth known, esp in spoken or written words
telling	adj. have a noticeable effect; impressive
telltale	 That gives warning or information.
temerity	 n. audacity; rashness
temp	 n. temporary employee, esp a secretary
temper	state of the mind as regards anger or calmness
temperament	n. person's nature as it affects the way he thinks, feels and behaves
temperamental	caused by a person's temperament
temperamentally	adv: temperamentally unsuited for the job
temperance	moderation and self-restraint in one's behaviour or in eating and drinking
temperate	behaving with temperance(1); showing self-control
temperately	adv.
temperature	degree of heat or cold
tempest	violent storm
tempestuous	adj. stormy; violently agitated; turbulent
temple	 n. building used for the worship of a god or gods, esp in non-Christian religions
tempo	n. speed or rhythm of a piece of music
temporal	of worldly affairs, ie not spiritual; secular
temporarily	adv.
temporary	adj. lasting or meant to last for a limited time only; notpermanent
temporization	[ temporize: ] to delay, act evasively, or protract a discussion, negotiation, etc., esp. in order to gain time or effect a compromise
temporize	avoid committing oneself; gain time
tempt	persuade or try to persuade sb to do sth, esp sth wrong or unwise
temptation	tempting or tempted
tempter	person who tempts
ten	10; one more than nine 10.
tenable	that can be defended successfully against opposition or attack
tenacious	sticking or clinging firmly together or to an object
tenacity	 firmness; persistency; adhesiveness
tenancy	use of land or buildings as a tenant(1)
tenant	person who pays rent to a landlord for the use of a room, a building, land, etc
tend	take care of or look after
tendency	~ (to do sth) way a person or thing tends to be or behave
tendentious	adj. (of a speech, a piece of writing, etc) aimed at helping a cause; not impartial
tender	easily damaged or hurt; delicate
tenderfoot	 n. newcomer who is unused to hardships; inexperienced person ;
tenderize	to make (meat) tender by pounding it to break down the fibres, by steeping it in a marinade, or by treating it with a tenderizer
tenderness	 n.
tendinous	consisting of tendons:sinewy
tenet	n. principle; belief; doctrine
tennis	 n. game for two or four players, who hit a ball backwards and forwards across a net with rackets .
tenon	n. projecting end of a piece of wood shaped to fit into a mortise to make a joint
tenor	general routine or course of sth
tense	stretched tightly; taut ;
tensile	of tension
tension	state or degree of stretching or being stretched
tent	 n. shelter or dwelling madeof canvas, etc supported by poles and ropes attached to pegs driven into the ground
tentacle	 n. slender flexible part extending from the body of certain animals (eg snails, octopuses), used for feeling or grasping things or for moving
tentative	adj. done, said, etc to test sth; hesitant or exploratory; not definite or decisive
tenterhook	 one of a series of hooks or bent nails used to hold cloth stretched on a tenter
tenterhooks	n. (be) on `tenterhooks in a state of anxious suspense oruncertainty
tenth	pron. det 10th; next after ninth 10. n one of ten equal parts of sth
tenuous	thin; slender
tenure	holding of office or land or other property, etc ,
tepee	n. cone-shaped tent made of skins orbark on a frame of poles, used by AmericanIndians
tepid	adj. lukewarm
tercentenary	 n. 300th anniversary 300
term	period of time for which sth lasts; fixed or limited time
termagant	n. bad-tempered bullying woman
terminable	 adj. that can be terminated
terminal	of the last stage in a fatal disease
terminate	v. come to an end or bring (sth) to an end
termination	point at which or way in which sth ends
terminologically adv: terminologically incorrect
	terminologically adv: terminologically incorrect
terminology	technical terms of a particular subject
terminus	 n. station at the end of a railway line
termite	n. small insect, found chiefly in tropical areas, that is very destructive to timber
terpsichorean	of or relating to dancing or the art of dancing
terrace	raised level area of ground or a series of these into which a hillside is shaped so that it can be cultivated
terrain	n. stretch of land, with regard to its natural features
terrapin	 n. any of various types of edible freshwater tortoise of N America
terrestrial	of or living on land
terrible	causing great fear ordistress; appalling
terribly	very badly
terrific	very great; extreme
terrifically	 adv. extremely
terrify	v. fill (sb) with terror; make very frightened
terrifying	 [ terrify: ] to inspire fear or dread in; frighten greatly
territorial	adj. of a country'sterritory
territoriality	 the state or rank of being a territory
territory	land under the control of a ruler, country, city, etc
terror	extreme fear
terrorism	n. use ofviolence and threats of violence, esp for political purposes,
terrorist	n. person who supports or participatesin terrorism
terrorize	to coerce or control by violence, fear, threats, etc.
terrorized	 [ terrorize: ] to coerce or control by violence, fear, threats, etc.
terse	adj. using few words; concise; curt
terseness	n.
tertiary	 adj. third in order, rank, importance, etc; next after secondary
tessellate	 vt. to construct, pave, or inlay with a mosaic of small tiles
tessellated	adj. made from small flat pieces of stone of various colours arranged in a pattern
tessellation	 the act of tessellating
test	examination or trial of the qualities, etc of a person or thing
testament	(usu sing ) ~ (to sth) thing that provides clear proof of sth
testamentary	 adj. of or given in a person's will
testator	 n. person who has made a will4(4)
testify	~ (to sth); ~ (against/in favour of sb) give evidence; declare as a witness, esp in court
testimonial	written statement testifying to a person's character, abilities or qualifications
testimony	written or spoken statement declaring that sth is true,esp one made under oath
testiness	n.
testy	adj. easily annoyed; irritable
tetchy	 adj. peevish; irritable
tether	rope or chain by which an animal is fastened while it is grazing
text	main written or printed part of a book or page
textbook	 n. book givinginstruction in a subject
textile	n. woven or machine-knitted fabric
texture	way a surface, substance or fabric looks or feels to the touch, ie its thickness, firmness, roughness, etc
textured	 adj. having a distinct or specified texture
than	 conj (used after a comparative adj or adv to introduce a clause or phrase in which a comparison is expressed
thank	~ sb express gratitude to sb
thankful	grateful
thanks	expressions of gratitude
thanksgiving	expression of gratitude, esp to God
that	(used to make a person or thing specific, esp when he/it is seen as distant in space or time from the speaker/writer , )
thatch	dried straw, reeds, etc
thaw	~ (sth) (out) (cause sth to) pass into an unfrozen or a liquid state after being frozen
the	 )
theater	a building designed for the performance of plays, operas, etc.
theatre	buildingor outdoor area for the performance of plays and similar entertainments
theatrical	of or for the theatre
theatricality	[ theatrical: ] of or relating to the theatre or dramatic performances
theft	n. stealing
their	possess det of or belonging to them
theirs	 possess pron of or belonging to them
theism	 n. belief in the existence of a God or gods, esp a God revealed to man as the creator and ruler of the universe
theist	 n. believer in theism
theistic	 theistical adjs
them	be )
thematic	 adj. of or related to a theme
theme	subject of a talk, a piece of writing or a person's thoughts; topic
themselves	(reflex ) (used when the people or animals performing an action are also affected by it )
then	at that time
theocracy	n. system of government by priests or a priestly class in which the laws of the State are believed to be the laws of God
theologian	 n. expert in or student of theology
theological	adj.
theology	formal study of the nature of God and of the foundations of religious belief
theorem	rule in algebra, etc, esp one expressed as a formula
theoretical	concerned with the theory of a subject
theorist	 n. person who forms theories
theorize	 To speculate.
theory	set of reasoned ideas intended to explain facts or events
theosophy	n. any of several systems that aim at a direct knowledge of God by means of meditation, prayer, etc ,
therapeutic	adj. of the art of healing or the curing of disease
therapist	n. specialist in aparticular type of therapy
therapy	any treatment designedto relieve or cure an illness or a disability
there	in, at or to that place
thereabouts	somewhere near there
thereafter	 adv. after that
thereby	adv. by that means
therefor	 For that or this.
therefore	adv. for that reason
therein	adv. inthat place
thereof	adv. of that; of it ;
thermal	ofheat
thermodynamics	 n. branch of physics dealing with the relations between heat and other forms of energy .
thermoelectric	 adj. producing electricity by difference of temperature
thermoelectricity Electricity generated by differences of temperature,
	thermoelectricity Electricity generated by differences of temperature,
thermometer	n. instrumentfor measuring temperature
thermoplastic	n, adj that becomes soft and easy to bend when heated and hardens when cooled
thesaurus	book containing listsof words and phrases grouped according to their meanings
these	=> this
thesis	 n. statement or theory put forward and supported by arguments
thespian	 adj. of acting or the theatre
they	 pers pron. people, animals or things mentioned earlier or being observed now
thick	of relatively great distance or of a specified distance between opposite surfaces or sides
thicken	become thicker
thickening	 n. material or substance used to thicken sth
thicket	n. mass of shrubs and small trees, etc growing close together
thickness	quality or degree of being thick
thief	n. person who steals, esp secretly and without violence
thigh	n. part of the human leg between the knee and the hip
thimbleful	 n. very small quantity, esp of liquid to drink
thin	 adj. having opposite surfaces relatively close together; of small diameter
thing	any unnamed object
think	v. ~ (about sth) use the mind in an active way to form connected ideas
thinker	n. person who thinks deeply or in a specified way
thinness	 n.
third	3.
thirdly	adv. in the third position or place
thirst	feeling caused by a desire or need to drink
thirstily	adv: They drank thirstily
thirsty	~ (for sth) feeling thirst
thirteen	 pron, det 13; one more than twelve 13.
thirteenth	13. n one of thirteen equal parts of sth . For the uses of thirteen and thirteenth see five and fifth. thirteenthirteenthfivefifth
thirtieth	30. n one of thirty equal parts of sth
thirty	 pron, det 30; one more than twenty-nine 30.
this	 det, pron . used to refer to a person, a thing, a place or an event that is close to the speaker/writer, esp when compared with another
thither	to or towards that place
thorn	sharp pointed growth on the stem of a plant
thorny	having thorns
thorough	done completely and with great attention to detail; not superficial
thoroughbred	 n, adj of pure or pedigree stock
thoroughfare	 n. public road or street that is open at both ends, esp for traffic
thoroughly	 adv: The work had not been done very thoroughly. * He's a thoroughly nice person.* I'm thoroughly fed up with you
thoroughness	 n.
those	=> that1
though	despite the fact that; although
thought	pt, pp of think1
thoughtful	thinking deeply; absorbedin thought
thoughtless	not aware of the possible effects or consequences of one's actions, etc; careless ;
thousand	1000; ten hundred 1000
thousandfold	 adj. adv one thousand times as much or as many
thousandth	 pron, det 1000th; next after nine hundred and ninety-ninth 1000. n one of one thousand equal parts of sth
thrall	 slave; bondage
thrash	beat with a stick or whip, esp as a punishment
thread	spun cotton, wool, silk, etc; thin strand of nylon, etc
threadbare	worn thin; shabby
threadlike	 adj. resembling a thread; long and slender
threat	expression of one's intention to punish or harm sb, esp if he does not obey
threaten	~ sb make a threat or threats against sb; try to influence sb by threats
threatening	[ threaten: ] vt. to be a threat
three	3; one more than two 3.
thresh	 v. beat out or separate from husks of wheat, etc using a machine or (esp formerly) an implement held in the hand
threshold	piece of wood or stone forming the bottom of a doorway
threw	pt of throw1
thrift	careful or economical use of money or resources
thrifty	adj. showing thrift; economical ;
thrill	wave of excited feeling; nervoustremor
thrive	 v. ~ (on sth) grow or develop well and vigorously; prosper
thriving	 [ thrive: ] to grow strongly and vigorously
throat	front part of the neck
throaty	adj. uttered deep in the throat; guttural
throb	(of the heart, pulse, etc) beat, esp faster or stronger thanusual
throe	(n.) spasm or pang; agony
throes	severe pains
throne	 ,
throng	 n. crowded mass of people or things
throttle	seize by the throat and stop him breathing; choke; strangle
through	from one end or side of (a channel, passage, etc) to the other
throughout	in every part
throve	 => thrive
throw	v. send (sth) through the air with some force, esp by moving the arm
throwback	a person, animal, or plant that has the characteristics of an earlier or more primitive type
thrust	push (sth/sb/oneself) suddenly or violently
thumb	short thick finger set apart from the other four .
thump	v. beat or strike or knock heavily, esp with the fist
thunder	loud noise that follows a flash of lightning
thunderbolt	flash of lightning with a crash of thunder
thunderous	 adj. like thunder; very loud
thunderstorm	 n. storm with thunder and lightning and usu heavy rain
Thursday	 n. the fifth day of the week, next after Wednesday
thus	in this way; like this
thwart	 v. prevent doing what he intends; oppose (a plan, etc) successfully
thyme	n. any of various types of herb with fragrant leaves
tick	light and regularly repeated sound, esp that of a clock or watch
ticket	written or printed piece of card or paper that gives the holder a certain right
tickle	touch or stroke lightly, esp at sensitive parts, so as to cause a slight tingling sensation, often with twitching movements and laughter
tickler	n. puzzle; problem
ticklish	sensitive to tickling
tiddler	very small fish, esp a stickleback or minnow
tide	regular rise and fall in the level of the sea, caused by the attraction of the moon and sun
tidy	arranged neatly and in order
tie	strip of decorative material worn round the neck under the collar and knotted in front .
tiff	 n. slight quarrel between friends or acquaintances
tiger	large fierce animal of the cat family, with yellowish and black stripes, found in Asia .
tigerish	 adj. like a tiger, esp fiercely energetic
tight	fixed, fastened or drawn together firmly; hard to move or undo
tighten	~ (up) (cause sth to) become tight or tighter
tightfisted	reluctant to part with money
tightly	adv. in a tight manner
tightness	n.
tightwad	 excessively frugal person; miser
tile	slab of baked clay or other material used in rows for covering roofs, walls, floors, etc
till	 => until
tiller	 n. person who tills
tilt	move into a sloping position
tilted	 [ tilt: ] to incline or cause to incline at an angle
tilth	n. depth of soil affected by cultivation
timber	wood prepared for use in building or carpentry
timbre	 n. characteristicquality of sound produced by a particular voice or instrument
time	all the years of the past, present and future
timeless	not appearing to be affected by the passing of time
timelessness	 n.
timeliness	 n.
timely	 adj. occurring at just the right time; opportune
timer	n. person or device that times sth
timetable	n. list showing the time at which certain events will take place
timeworn	 hackneyed, stale
timid	adj. easily frightened; shy
timidity	 timidness ns
timidly	adv.
timorous	 adj. timid
tin	chemical element, a soft white metal used in alloys and for coating iron and steel to prevent corrosion
tincture	medical substance dissolved in alcohol
tinder	 n. any dry substance that catches fire easily
tine	,
tined	[ tine: ] a slender prong, esp. of a fork
tinge	colour sth slightly
tinker	person who travels from place to place repairing kettles, pans, etc
tint	shade or variety of a colour
tiny	very small
tip	pointed or thin end of sth
tipple	 v. be in the habit of drinking alcoholic drinks, esp too often or too much
tipster	n. person who gives tips(tip3 n 2b), usu in return for money
tipsy	adj. (infml ) slightly drunk
tiptoe	 n. on `tiptoe on the tips of one's toes; with one's heels not touching the ground
tirade	 n. long angry speech of criticism or accusation
tire	become weary or in need of rest
tired	feeling that one would like to sleep or rest
tireless	 adj. not tiring easily; energetic
tiresome	 adj. troublesome, tedious or annoying
tiring	 adj. bored
tissue	mass of cells forming the body of an animal or a plant
titanic	adj. gigantic; immense
titanium	 a strong malleable white metallic element, which is very corrosion-resistant and occurs in rutile and ilmenite. It is used in the manufacture of strong lightweight alloys, esp. aircraft parts. Symbol: Ti; atomic no.: 22; atomic wt.: 47.88; valency: 2, 3,
tithe	n. one tenth of the annual produce of a farm, etc formerly paid as a tax to support the clergy and the church
titillate	v. stimulate or excite (sb), esp sexually
titivate	 v. make (esp oneself) smart or attractive
title	 ,
titter	 n. short nervous laugh
titular	having a certain title(
to	 prep. in the direction of (sth); towards
toad	frog-like animal that lives on land except when breeding
toady	n. person who flatters another or treats him with excessive respect in the hope of gain or advantage
toast	sliced bread made brown and crisp by heating under a grill, in a toaster, etc
tobacco	(type of) leaves that are dried, cured and used for smoking (in pipes, cigarettes and cigars) or chewing, or as snuff
tocsin	(bell rung as a) signal of alarm
today	this day
toe	each of the five divisions of the front part of the human foot .
toga	 n. loose outer garment worn by men in ancient Rome
together	in or into company; with or towards each other
toil	~ away (at/over sth) work long or hard
toilet	lavatory
toilsome	 Laborious.
token	sign, symbol or evidence of sth
told	 pt, pp of tell
tolerable	that can be tolerated; endurable
tolerably	adv. in a moderate degree; fairly well
tolerance	n. willingness or ability to tolerate sb/sth
tolerant	 adj. ~ having or showing tolerance
tolerate	allow without interfering
toleration	 n. action or practice of tolerating (tolerate1
toll	 ,
tomato	 n. soft juicy red or yellow fruit eaten raw or cooked as a vegetable
tomb	 n. hole dug in the ground, etc for a dead body, esp one with a stone monument over it ,
tombstone	n. memorial stone set up over a tomb
tome	 n. large heavy book, esp a scholarly or serious one ,
tomfool	adj. very foolish; stupid
tomorrow	the day after today
ton	measure of weight, in Britain 2240 lband in the US 2000 lb (short ton) 2240, ; 2000.
tonal	of tone or tones
tonality	 n. (use of a particular) key, esp as the basis of a melody or composition ,
tone	sound, esp with reference to its pitch, quality, strength, etc
tong	 a secret society or fraternal organization especially of Chinese in the U.S. formerly notorious for gang warfare
tongs	instrument with two movable arms joined at one end, used for picking up and holding things
tongue	movable organ in the mouth, used in tasting, licking, swallowing and speaking
tonic	medicine that gives strength or energy, taken after illness or when tired
tonight	n. the present evening or night
tonsorial	of or relating to a barber or the work of a barber
tonsure	shaving the top or all of the head of a person about to become a priest ormonk
too	in addition; also
took	 pt of take1
tool	instrument held in the hand and used for working on sth
tooth	n. each of the hard white bony structures rooted in the gums, used for biting and chewing
toothache	n. pain in a tooth or teeth
toothpaste	 n. paste for cleaning the teeth
top	highest part or point
topaz	n. transparent yellow mineral
topic	n. subject of a discussion, talk, programme, written work, etc
topmost	adj. highest
topographical	adj. a topographical map
topography	 n. features of a place or district, esp the position of its rivers, mountains, roads, buildings, etc
topple	~ (over) be unsteady and fall
topsoil	n. soil near the surface
topsy-turvy	in or into a state of disordered confusion
torch	small hand-held electric lamp powered by a battery
torchlight	 n. light of a torch or torches
torment	n. severe physical or mental suffering
tornado	n. violent and destructive storm over a small area; whirlwind
torpedo	n. tube-shaped explosive underwater missile launched against ships by submarines, aircraft or surface ships
torpid	 adj. dull and slow; inactive; sluggish ;
torpidity	n. torpid condition
torpor	 n. torpid condition
torque	 n. twisting force causing rotation in machinery
torrent	violently rushing stream of water, lava, etc
torrential	 adj. like a torrent
torrid	very hot and dry
torridness	 [ torrid: ] so hot and dry as to parch or scorch
torso	main part of the human body, not including the head, arms and legs; trunk
tortilla	 n. round thin cake of maize flour, usu eaten hot with a filling of meat, etc, esp in Mexico ,
tortious	 Wrongful.
tortoise	 n. slow-moving four-footed reptile with a hard shell
tortuous	full of twists and turns
torture	deliberately inflicting severe pain, as a punishment or in order to force sb to say or do sth
torturous	Marked by extreme suffering.
toss	~ sth (to sb) throw sth lightly or carelessly or easily
total	adj. complete; entire
totalitarian	 adj. of a system of government in which there is only one political party and no rival parties or loyalties are allowed, usu demanding that the individual submit totally to the requirements of the State
totalitarianism	n.
totality	state of being total
totally	adv. completely; utterly
totem	n. natural object, esp an animal, considered by N American Indians as the emblem of a clan or family
totter	walk or move unsteadily; stagger
touch	be or come together with so that there is no space between
touched	made to feel warm sympathy or gratitude
touching	 adj. arousing pity or sympathy
touchstone	 stone used to test the fineness of gold alloys; criterion
touchy	easily offended
tough	not easily cut, broken, or worn out
toughness	n.
toupee	 n. patch of false hair worn to cover a bald spot; small wig ;
tour	journey for pleasure during which various places of interest are visited
tourist	person who is travelling or visiting a place for pleasure
tournament	 n. 1series of contests of skill between a number of competitors,often on a knock-out basis
tourniquet	 n. device for stopping the flow of blood through an artery by twisting sth tightly around a limb
tousle	 v. make untidy by pulling or rubbing it about
tout	~ try to get people to buy (one's goods or services), esp in an annoyingly insistent way
tow	v. pull along with a rope, chain, etc
toward	 (now rare)
toward(s)	prep. in the derection of
towards	in the direction of
towel	piece of absorbent cloth or paper for drying oneself or wiping things dry
tower	tall narrow structure, usu square or circular, either standing alone or forming part of a church or a castle or some other large building
towering	extremely or impressively tall or high
town	centre of population that is larger than a village but smaller than a city
toxic	adj. poisonous
toxicity	 n. quality or degree of being toxic
toxin	n. poisonous substance, esp one formed by bacteria in plants and animals and causing a particular disease
toy	thing to play with, esp for a child
trace	mark, track, sign, etc showing what has existed or happened
traceable	[ trace: ] a mark or other sign that something has been in a place; vestige
track	line or series of marks left by a moving vehicle, person, animal, etc
tracks	 marks, such as footprints, tyre impressions, etc., left by someone or something that has passed
tract	large stretch or area of land
tractability	 n.
tractable	adj. easily guided, handled or controlled; docile ;
traction	pulling sth along a surface
tractor	powerful motor vehicleused for pulling farm machinery or other heavy equipment
trade	~ (with sb/sth) exchange of goods or services for money or other goods; buying and selling
trademark	the name or other symbol used to identify the goods produced by a particular manufacturer or distributed by a particular dealer and to distinguish them from products associated with competing manufacturers or dealers.
trader	 n. person who trades; merchant ; .
tradesman	person who comes to people's homes to deliver goods
tradition	n. passing of beliefs or customs from one generation to the next, esp without writing
traditional	adj. according to or being tradition
traditionalism	 n. respect or support for tradition, esp as contrasted with modern or new practices
traditionalist	 n. person who follows or supports tradition
traduce	v. saydamaging untrue things about (sb/sth); slander or defame;
traffic	vehicles moving along a road or street
tragedian	writer of tragedies
tragedienne	n. actress in tragedy
tragedy	terrible event that causes great sadness
tragic	causing great sadness, esp because extremely unfortunate or having terrible consequences
tragically	 adv: her tragically short life
trail	mark or sign in the form of a long line left by sth or sb passing by
trailer	truck or other wheeled container pulled by another vehicle
train	railway engine with several carriages or trucks linked to and pulled by it
trainee	n. person being trained for a job, etc
training	 n. process of preparing or being prepared for a sport or job
trait	n. element in sb's personality; distinguishing characteristic
traitor	person who betrays a friend, his country, a cause, etc
trajectory	 n. curved path of sth that has been fired, hit or thrown into the air, eg a missile
tram	 n. public passenger vehicle,usu driven by electricity, running on rails laid along the streets of a town n public passenger vehicle,usu driven by electricity, running on rails laid along the streets of a town
trammel	v. (fml or rhet ) take away the freedom of action of (sb); hamper; impede
tramp	walk with heavy or noisy steps
trample	~ sth/sb (down) tread heavily on sth/sb so as to cause damage or destruction
trance	sleep-like state, caused eg by being hypnotized
tranquil	 adj. calm, quiet and undisturbed
tranquility	Calmness.
tranquilize	To soothe.
tranquilizer	 [ tranquillizer: ] a drug that calms a person without affecting clarity of consciousness
tranquillity	 n. tranquil condition
tranquillize	 v. make calmer or sleepy, esp by means of a drug
tranquillizer	n. drug for making an anxious person feel calm; sedative
transact	 v. ~ sth (fml ) conduct or carry out (business), esp between two people
transaction	~ transacting
transalpine	Situated on the other side of the Alps.
transatlantic	on or from the other side of the Atlantic
transcend	be or go beyond the range of (human experience, belief, powers of description, etc)
transcendence	ns
transcendent	 adj. extremely great; supreme
transcendental	 adjgoing beyond the limits of humanknowledge, experience or reason, esp in a mystical or religious way
transcontinental adj. crossing a continent
	transcontinental adj. crossing a continent
transcribe	~ sth copy sth in writing
transcript	written or recorded copy of what has been said or written
transcription	action or process of transcribing
transfer	 v. ~ sth/sb (from...) (to...) move sth/sb from one place to another
transferable	 adj. that can be transferred
transferee	 The person to whom a transfer is made.
transference	 n. transferring or being transferred
transfigure	v. change the appearance of (sb/sth), esp so as to make him/it nobler or more beautiful
transform	v. ~ sth/sb (into sth) completely change the appearance or character of sth/sb
transformable	adj. that can be transformed
transformation	 n. transforming or being transformed
transformed	[ transform: ] to alter or be altered radically in form, function, etc.
transformer	n. apparatus for increasing or reducing the voltage of an electric power supply, to allow a particular piece of electrical equipment to be used
transfuse	To pour or cause to pass, as a fluid, from one vessel to another.
transfusion	n. act or process of putting one person's blood into another person's body
transgress	go beyond (the limit of what is morally or legally acceptable)
transgression	n. transgressing
transgressor	 n. person who transgresses; sinner ;
transience	ns
transient	adj. lasting for only a short time; brief; fleeting
transistor	small electronic device used in radios, televisions, etc for controlling an electrical signal as it passes along a circuit
transit	process of going or being taken or transported from one place to another
transition	 n. ~ (to sth) (instance of) changing from one state or condition to another
transitional	 adj. a transitional stage
transitionary	[ transition: ] change or passage from one state or stage to another
transitoriness	 n.
transitory	 adj. lasting for only a short time; transient
translatable	 adj. that can be translated
translate	~ (from sth) (into sth) express (sth spoken or esp written) in another language or in simpler words
translation	translating
translator	 n. person who translates
translucence	ns
translucent	adj. allowinglight to pass through but not transparent
transmissible	That may e sent through or across.
transmission	action or process of transmitting or being transmitted
transmit	 To send trough or across.
transmogrification 
	transmogrification 
transmogrify	 v. (joc ) completely change the appearanceor character of (sb/sth), esp in a magical or a surprising way
transmontane	 adj. n. nother word for: tramontan
transmutable	 adj. that can be transmuted
transmute	v. ~sth change sth (into sth completely different)
transparency	state of being transparent
transparent	allowinglight to pass through so that objects behind can be seen clearly
transpire	(of an event, a secret, etc) become known
transplant	 v. ~ sth (to...); ~ sth (in/into sth) remove (a growing plant) with its roots and replant it elsewhere
transplantation	n.
transport	take sth/sb from one place to another in a vehicle
transportable	adj. that can be transported
transportation	= transport
transpose	cause to change places
transposition	n. transposing or being transposed
transsexual	person who emotionally feels himself or herself to be a member of the opposite sex
transverse	 adj. lying or acting in a crosswise direction
trap	device for catching animals, etc
trapeze	n. horizontal bar hung from ropes, used as a swing by acrobats and gymnasts
trapezium	(Brit) (US trapezoid) four-sided figure with one pair of opposite sides parallel and the other pair not .
trapping	 [ trap: ] a mechanical device or enclosed place or pit in which something, esp. an animal, is caught or penned
trappings	n. outward signs of prestige, wealth, etc
trash	material, writing, etc of poor quality
trashy	 adj. of poor quality
trauma	(psychology ) emotional shock producing a lasting harmful effect
traumatic	of or causing trauma
travail	painful effort
travel	make a journey
travelogue	 n. film or lecture about travel
traverse	 v. travel, lie or extendacross
travesty	 n. ~ absurd imitation of or inferior substitute for sth
trawl	large net with a wide opening, dragged along the bottom of the sea by a boat
tray	flat piece of wood, metal, plastic, etc with raised edges, used for carrying or holding things, esp food
treacherous	behaving withor showing treachery
treacherousness	[ treacherous: ] betraying or likely to betray faith or confidence
treachery	n. betrayinga person or cause, esp secretly
treacle	n. thick sticky dark liquid produced when sugar is refined
tread	~ (on, etc sth/sb) set one's foot down; walk or step
treadmill	mill-wheel turned by the weight of people or animals treading on steps round its inside edge
treason	n. treachery to one's country or its ruler (eg by plotting to kill him)
treasonable	adj. a treasonable offence, ie one that can be punished as treason
treasure	gold, silver, jewels, etc
treasurer	n. person responsible for the money, bills, etc of a club or society ,
treasury	the Treasury government department that controls public revenue
treat	~ sb act or behave in a certain way towards sb
treatable	adj. a treatable cancer
treatise	 n. ~ long written work dealing systematically with one subject
treatment	process or manner of treating sb or sth
treaty	formal agreement between two or more countries
treble	 adj. n three times as much or as many
trebly	 Triply.
tree	large long-lasting type of plant, having a thick central wooden stem (the trunk) from which wooden branches grow, usu bearing leaves
treeless	 adj. without trees
trek	 n. long hard journey, esp on foot
tremble	~ (with sth)shake involuntarily (from fear, cold, weakness, etc); quiver
trembler	 n. spring that makes an electrical contact when shaken
tremendous	very great; immense
tremor	slight shaking or trembling
tremulous	tremblingfrom nervousness or weakness
trench	 n. ditch dug in the ground, eg for drainage or to give troops shelter from enemy fire
trenchant	adj. strongly and effectively expressed; penetrating
trencherman	n. (idm ) a good, etc trencherman (joc ) person who usually eats a lot
trend	general tendency or direction
trepan	 v. (medical ) = trephine
trepidation	n. great worry or fear about sth unpleasant that may happen
trespass	~ enter sb's land or property without his permission or other authority
trespasser	 n. person who trespasses
tress	lock of a person's hair
tresses	a lock of hair, esp. a long lock of woman's hair
trestle	 ,
triad	group or set of three related people or things
trial	examination of evidence in a lawcourt, by a judge and often a jury, to decide if sb accused of a crime is innocent or guilty
triangle	geometric figure withthree straight sides and three angles
triangular	shaped like a triangle
tribal	 adj. of a tribe or tribes
tribe	racial group united by language, religion, customs, etc and living as a community under one or more chiefs
tribulation	(sad event, accident, illness, etc that causes) great trouble or suffering
tribunal	 n. group of officials with the authority to settle certain types of dispute
tribune	Any champion of the rights and liberties of the people: often used as the name for a newspaper.
tributary	n. river or stream that flows into a larger one or into a lake
tribute	action, statement or gift that is meant to show one's respect or admiration
trice	n. in a trice very quickly or suddenly
trick	thing done in order to deceive or outwit sb
trickery	 n. deception; cheating ;
trickle	flow in a thin stream
trickling	[ trickle: ] to run or cause to run in thin or slow streams
trickster	n. person who tricks or cheats people; swindler ;
tricolor	 Of three colors.
tricycle	 n. vehicle like a bicycle but with one wheel at the front and two at the back
trident	n. spear with three points
triennial	adj. lasting for or happening every three years
triennially	adv: The games occur triennially
trifle	thing, question or activity that has little value or importance
trifler	n. person who trifles
trifling	 adj. unimportant; trivial
trig	 neat or spruce
trigger	n. lever that releases a spring, esp so as to fire a gun
trilateral	 adj. involving three sides, groups, countries, etc
trillion	(the number) 1000000000000000000; one million million million.
trillionth	hundredth
trilogy	n. group of three related works, esp three novels or operas
trim	make (sth) neat or smooth by cutting away irregular parts
Trinity	group of three things or people; trio ;
trinket	n. small ornament, piece of jewellery, etc of little value
trio	group of three people or things
trip	~ (over/up) catch one's foot on sth and stumble or fall
triple	having three parts or involving three people, groups, etc
triplicate	 n. in triplicate consisting of three identical copies, of which one is the original
triplicity	 The state of being triple or threefold.
tripod	 n. support with three legs for a camera, telescope, etc
trisect	v. divide into three equal parts
trite	,
triumph	being successful or victorious
triumphal	of or for a triumph
triumphant	 adj. having triumphed
triumvir	 One of three men united coordinately in public office or authority.
triumvirate	n. ruling group of three people
trivia	 n. unimportant things, details or pieces of information
trivial	adj. that has little importance
triviality	state of being trivial
trivialize	 to cause to seem trivial or more trivial; minimize
trod	 pt of tread
trodden	pp of tread
troglodyte	 n. person living in a cave, esp in prehistoric times
trolley	cart on wheels that can be pushed or pulled along and is used for moving goods
troop	large group of people or animals, esp when moving
trope	n. figurative use of a word or phrase
trophy	object awarded as a prize, esp for winning a sports tournament
tropic	line of latitude
tropical	 adj. of, like or found in the tropics
trot	 n. Trotskyst
troth	n. (idm ) plight one's troth
trouble	worry, pain, difficulty, danger, etc
troubled	 [ trouble: ] a state or condition of mental distress or anxiety
troublesome	adj. giving trouble; causing annoyance, pain, etc
trough	long narrow open box for animals to feed or drink from
trounce	defeat heavily
troupe	 n. group of performing artists, esp those of a circus or ballet ,
trouser	adj. of or for trousers
trousers	outer garment covering both legs and reaching from the waist to the ankles
trout	any of various types of freshwater fish that are good to eat and fished for by anglers
trove	See: treasure-trov
trowel	small tool with a flat blade, used for spreading mortar on bricks or stone, plaster on walls, etc ,
truancy	n. playing truant
truant	child who stays away from school without permission
truce	n. agreement between enemies or opponents to stop fighting for a certain time
truck	open railway wagon for carrying goods
truckle	v. truckle to sb accept sb's orders or authority in a timid or cowardly way
truculence	 agressiveness; ferocity
truculent	adj. defiantand aggressive
trudge	 v. walk slowly or with difficulty because one is tired, on a long journey, etc
true	corresponding to known facts
truism	 n. statement that is obviouslytrue, esp one that does not say anything important, eg Nothing lasts for ever ,
truly	truthfully
trumpery	 adj. showy but of little value
trumpet	brass musical instrument with a bright ringing tone
trumpeter	a person who plays the trumpet, esp. one whose duty it is to play fanfares, signals, etc.
truncate	 v. shorten by cutting off the top or end
truncated	(of a cone, pyramid, prism, etc.) having an apex or end removed by a plane intersection that is usually nonparallel to the base
truncation	 [ truncate: ] vt. to shorten by cutting off a part, end, or
truncheon	n. short thick stick carried as a weapon, esp by police officers
trunk	main stem of a tree, from which the branches grow .
truss	padded belt worn by a personsuffering from a hernia
trust	~ belief or willingness to believe that one can rely on the goodness, strength, ability, etc of sb/sth
trustability	 [ trust: ] reliance on and confidence in the truth, worth, reliability, etc., of a person or thing; faith
trustee	person who is responsible for managing a trust1
trusting	 [ trustful: ] trusting
trustworthiness	n.
trustworthy	adj. worthy of trust; reliable ;
truth	n. quality or state of being true
truthful	honest in what he says; never lying
truthfulness	 n.
try	make an attempt
tryst	meeting
tub	(often in compounds ) open flat-bottomed (usu round) container used for washing clothes, holding liquids, growing plants, etc
tube	long hollow cylinder of metal, glass, rubber, etc for holding or conveying liquids, gases, etc
tuber	n. short thick rounded part of an underground stem or root (eg of a dahlia) which stores food and produces buds from which new plants will grow
tuberculosis	 n. infectious wasting disease in which growths appear on body tissue, esp the lungs
tuck	flat fold stitched into a garment, etc to make it smaller or for ornament
Tuesday	n. the third day of the week, next after Monday
tug	v. ~ (at sth) pull (sth) hard or violently
tugboat	a strongly built powerful boat used for towing and pushing
tuition	n. (esp fml ) teaching or instruction, esp that given to individuals or small groups
tulip	n. garden plant growing from a bulb in spring, with a large brightly-coloured cup-shaped flower on a tall stem .
tumble	(cause sb/sth to) fall, esp helplessly or violently, but usu without serious injury
tumbler	.
tumbrel	n. open cart, esp of the kind used to carry condemned people to the guillotine during the French Revolution
tumid	adj. (of parts of the body) swollen
tumult	disturbance or confusion, esp of a large mass of people
tumultuous	disorderly or confused; violent
tuna	 n. (also tunny) large sea-fish, eaten as food ,
tundra	 n. vast flat treeless Arctic regions of Europe, Asia and N America where the subsoil is permanently frozen
tune	melody, esp a well-marked one
tuner	person who tunes musical instruments,esp pianos
tunic	close-fitting jacket worn as part of a uniform by police officers, soldiers, etc
tunnel	underground passage, eg for a road or railway through a hill or under a river or the sea
turbid	(of liquids) opaque or muddy; not clear
turbidity	turbidness ns
turbine	n. machine or motor driven by a wheel which is turned by a current of water, steam, air or gas
turbulence	unrest or disturbance
turbulent	moving violently and unevenly
tureen	 n. deep dish with a lid from which soup, vegetables, etc are served at table
turgid	(of language, style, etc) pompous and difficult to follow; boring
turkey	large bird reared to be eaten, esp at Christmas
Turkish	adj. of Turkey, its people or its language
turmoil	n. great disturbance, agitation or confusion
turn	 v. * MOVEMENT AROUND A CENTRAL POINT
turn off	 leave one road in order to travel on another
turncoat	 n. person who changes from one side, party, etc to another
turning	n. place where one road leads off from another
turnip	plant with a round white, or white and purple, root
turnkey	adj. built and handed over ready for use, occupation, etc
turpitude	n. state or quality of being wicked; depravity ;
turquoise	type of greenish-blue precious stone
turret	small tower on top of a larger tower or at the corner of a building or defensive wall
turtle	large reptile that lives in the sea and has flippers and a large horny shell
tusk	 .
tussle	 n. struggle or fight, esp to take sth away from sb
tutelage	protection of and authority over a person, country, etc; guardianship
tutelar	Protective.
tutelary	 adj. acting as a guardian or protector
tutor	private teacher, esp one who teaches a single pupil or a very small group
tutorship	The office of a guardian.
tuxedo	 n. (US) = dinner-jacket (dinner)
twaddle	n. nonsense or writing of low quality
twee	 adj. attractive to those with sentimental or poor taste
twelfth	pron, det 1
twelve	 pron, det 1
twentieth	pron. det 20th; next after nineteen 20 . n. one of twenty equal parts of sth
twenty	 pron, det 20; one more than nineteen 20.
twice	two times
twig	 n. small thin branch that grows out of a larger branch on a shrub or tree
twiggy	 adj. having many twigs
twilight	faint light after sunset or before sunrise
twin	either of a pair of children or young animals born of the same mother at the same time
twinge	short sudden spasm of pain
twinkle	shine with a light that changes constantly from bright to faint
twinkling	n. in the ,twinkling of an `eye very quickly; instantaneously
twirl	turn quickly and lightly round and round; spin
twist	~ sth (round sth/round) coil or wind sth round sth else
twit	 n. stupid or annoying person
twitter	make a series of light short sounds; chirp
two	pron, det 1
twofold	twice as much or as many
tycoon	 n. wealthy and powerful businessman or industrialist; magnate
type	~ class or group of people or things that have characteristics in common; kind
typewriter	 n. machine for producing characters similar to those of print by pressing keys which cause raised metal letters, etc to strike the paper, usu through inked ribbon
typhoid	n. serious infectious feverish disease that attacks the intestines, caused by bacteria taken into the body in food or drink
typhoon	n. violent tropical hurricane that occurs in the western Pacific
typical	having the distinctive qualities of a particular type of person or thing; representative
typify	 v. (usu not in the continuous tenses ) be arepresentative example of (sb/sth)
typist	 => type2
typo	 an error (as of spelling) in typed or typeset material
typographical	Pertaining to typography or printing.
typography	art or practice of printing
tyrannical	 adj. of or like a tyrant; obtaining obedience by force or threats
tyranny	cruel, unjust or oppressive use of power or authority
tyrant	 n. cruel, unjust or oppressive ruler, esp one who has obtained complete power by force; despot ;
tyre	 n. covering fitted round the rim of a wheel to absorb shocks, usu of reinforced rubber filled with air or covering a pneumatic inner tube
tyro	 beginner; novice
u	adj. thought to be characteristic of the upper class
ubiquitous	 adj. (seeming to be) present everywhere or in several places at the same time
ubiquity	 n. quality of being ubiquitous
ugly	unpleasant to look at or to hear
ulcer	n. open sore containing poisonous matter on the outside of the body or on the surface of an internal organ
ulcerate	 v. become affected with an ulcer or ulcers
ulterior	 adj. beyond what is obvious or admitted
ultimate	beyond which no other exists or is possible; last or final
ultimately	in the end; finally
ultimatum	n. final demand or statement of terms to be accepted without discussion, eg one sent to a foreign government and threatening war if the conditions are not accepted
ultramontane	 Beyond the mountains, especially beyond the Alps (that is, on their Italian side).
ultramundane	 adj. extending beyond the world, this life, or the univers
ultrasonic	 adj. pitched above the upper limit of human hearing
ultraviolet	(of radiation) with a wavelengththat is just beyond the violet end of the visible spectrum
umbrage	n. give `umbrage; take `umbrage (at sth) (fml or joc ) (make sb) feel offended or slighted
umbrella	folding frame of spokes attached to a stick and handle and covered with fabric, used to shelter a person from rain
umpire	.
umpteen	pron, det too many to count; numerous
umpteenth	pron, det
unabashed	adj. not ashamed, embarrassed or awed, esp when there is reason for being so
unabated	 adj. as strong,violent, serious, etc as before
unable	 adj. ~ to do sth not having the ability, opportunity or authority to do sth
unacceptable	 adj. that cannot be accepted, approved or forgiven
unacceptably	 adv: unacceptably low standards
unaccountable	that cannot be explained or accounted for
unadulterated	not mixed with other substances; pure
unadvised	rash or unwise
unaffected	~ not changed or affected (by sth)
unalloyed	adj. not mixed,eg with negative feelings; pure
unanimity	n. complete agreement or unity
unanimous	adj. ~ (in sth) all agreeing on a decision or an opinion
unassailable	 adj. that cannot be attacked or conquered
unassuming	 adj. not drawing attention to oneself or to one's merits or rank; modest
unattached	not connected with or belonging to a particular body, group, etc
unavailing	 adj. without effect or success; futile
unavoidable	adj. that cannotbe avoided
unavoidably	adv: unavoidably absent/delayed
unaware	adj. ~ ignorant or not conscious of sth
unawares	by surprise; unexpectedly
unbalance	v. upset the balance of
unbalanced	insane, abnormal or eccentric
unbearable	 adj. that cannot be tolerated or endured
unbearably	 adv: unbearably hot, painful,selfish
unbecoming	not suited to the wearer
unbelief	 n. lack of belief or state of not believing, esp in God, religion, etc
unbend	(cause sth/sb to) become changed from a bent position; straighten
unbiased	 Impartial, as judgment.
unbidden	not requested, invited or ordered
unbreakable	adj. that cannotbe broken
unbridle	 to remove the bridle from (a horse)
unbridled	adj. not controlled or checked
uncannily	adv: an uncannily accurate prediction
uncanny	adj. unnatural
unceremonious	without proper formality or dignity
uncertain	~ (about/of sth) not knowing definitely
uncertainty	n. state of being uncertain
uncharitable	 adj. severe orharsh, esp in judging others
uncharted	not marked on a map or chart
unchecked	adj. not resistedor restrained
uncle	brother of one's father or mother; husband of one's aunt
unclean	adj. (of food) that cannot be eaten; forbidden as spiritually impure
uncleanness	[ unclean: ] adj. lacking moral, spiritual, ritual, or physical cleanliness
unclear	adj. not clear or definite; ambiguous
uncomfortable	not comfortable
uncomfortably	not comfortably
uncommitted	adj. ~ not bound or pledged to (a particular policy, course of action, group, etc)
uncommon	not common; unusual
uncommunicative	adj. disinclined to talk or give information or opinions
unconcern	n. lack of care or interest
unconcerned	~not feeling or showing concern; uninterested
unconditional	adj. not subject to conditions; absolute
unconfirmed	adj. not proved to be true; not confirmed
unconscionable	 adj. unreasonable or excessive
unconscionably	 adv: an unconscionably shy young man
unconscious	not conscious; insensible
unconsciously	adv: He unconsciously imitated his father
unconsciousness	being unconscious; lack ofconsciousness; insensibility
uncontrollable	 adj. incapable of being controlled or managed
unconventional	 adj. not conforming to accepted rules or standards
unconventionality [ unconventional: ] adj. not conforming to accepted rules or standards
	unconventionality [ unconventional: ] adj. not conforming to accepted rules or standards
uncouth	 ,
uncover	remove a cover or covering from
uncovered	not covered; revealed or bare
unction	action of anointing with oil as a religious rite
unctuous	 adj. insincerelyearnest or flattering, esp in an oily way
undaunted	adj. not discouraged or intimidated; fearless
undeceive	v. free (sb) from an illusion or a deception
undeclared	 adj. not declared or shown to the Customs officers
undeniable	 adj. that cannot be disputed or denied; undoubtedly true
undeniably	 adv. undeniably difficult
under	in, to or through a position directly below
underbid	make a lower bid than (sb else), eg at an auction
undercharge	v. ~ (for sth) charge (sb) too low a price (for sth)
underclothes	)= underwear
undercurrent	currentof water flowing below the surface or below another current
undercut	 n. (meat cut from the) underside of sirloin
underdeveloped	not fully grown or developed
underdog	 n. person or country, thought to be in a weaker position, and therefore unlikely to win a contest, struggle, etc
underestimate	v. make too low an estimate of
underestimated	 [ underestimate: ] to make too low an estimate of
underexpose	v. expose for too short a time or in too poor a light
undergarment	 n. article of underclothing
undergird	strengthen the base of
undergo	v. experience or endure (sth unpleasant or painful)
undergraduate	n. university or college student who has not yet taken his first or bachelor's degree
underground	under the surface of the ground
underhand	adj. done or doing things in a sly or secret way; deceitful
underhanded	Clandestinely carried on.
underlay	 n. layer of felt, foam, rubber, etc laid for support and insulation
underlie	lie or exist beneath (sth)
underline	draw a line under
underling	n. person in a subordinate and inferior position
undermine	make a hollow or tunnel beneath (sth); weaken at the base
underneath	 prep beneath (sth); below
underpin	support (a wall, etc) from below with masonry, etc
underplay	v. give too littleimportance to
underrate	v. have toolow an opinion of
underscore	 v. = underline
undersell	v. sell (goods) at a lower price than (one's competitors)
undersized	 adj. of less than the usual size
undersold	pt, pp of undersell
understand	grasp the meaning of (words, a language, a person, etc)
understandable	 adj. that can beunderstood or sympathized with
understanding	power of clear thought; intelligence
understate	state or express in a very controlled way
understated	[ understate: ] to state (something) in restrained terms, often to obtain an ironic effect
understatement	 n. (action or practice of) understating
understudy	 n. ~ person who learns the part of another in a play, etc in order to be able to take his place at short notice if necessary
undertake	(start to) make oneself responsible for (sth)
undertaker	 n. person whose business is to prepare the dead for burial or cremation and arrange funerals
undertaking	work, etc that one has undertaken; task or enterprise
undervalue	 v. ~ sb/sth put too low a value on sb/sth
undervalued	[ undervalue: ] to value at too low a level or price
underwater	 adj. situated or used or done below the surface of the water
underwear	n. clothes worn under a shirt, dress, etc next to the skin
underwent	pt of undergo
underworld	place under the earth inhabited by the departed spirits of the dead
underwrite	sign and accept liability under (an insurance policy, esp for ships), thus guaranteeing payment in the event of loss or damage ,
undeserved	 adj. not fair or just
undeservedly	 adv.
undesirable	likely to cause trouble or inconvenience; unwanted
undid	pt of undo
undirected	 lacking a clear purpose or objective
undistinguished	adj. lacking any outstanding feature; mediocre or poor
undivided	adj. give one's undivided attention (to sth/sb); get/have sb's undivided attention concentrate fully (on sth/sb); be the one thing or person that sb attends to
undo	untie or unfasten (knots, buttons, etc); open (a parcel, an envelope, etc) ,
undoing	n. cause of sb's ruin or downfall
undone	untied, unfastened oropened
undoubted	adj. not doubted or questioned; indisputable
undoubtedly	adv. without doubt
undrinkable	adj. not fit to be drunk, because of impurity or poor quality
undue	adj. more than is right or proper; excessive
undulate	 v. have a wave-like movement or appearance
undulating	 [ undulate: ] to move or cause to move in waves or as if in waves
unduly	 adv. more than is right or proper; excessively
unearned	not gained by working
unearth	uncover or obtain sth from the ground by digging
unearthly	supernatural or mysterious or frightening
uneasiness	 [ uneasy: ] (of a person) anxious; apprehensive
uneasy	~ (about/atsth) troubled or anxious
unemployment	 n. state of being unemployed
unencumbered	 easy-going/trifle
unending	everlasting orunceasing
unequivocal	adj. having only one possible meaning; clear and unmistakeable
unequivocally	adv: state one's intentions unequivocally
unerring	 adj. not making mistakes or failing or missing the mark; consistently accurate
unerringly	 adv.
unessential	a less common word for: inessential
uneven	not level or smooth or regular
unexampled	 adj. without precedent or paralle
unexceptionable	adj. that cannot be criticized; entirely satisfactory
unexceptional	adv. not outstanding or unusual; quite ordinary ;
unexpected	 adj. causing surprise because not expected
unexpectedly	 adv.
unfailing	never coming to an end; constant
unfailingly	adv. at all times
unfair	~ not rightor just
unfairness	 n.
unfaithful	having committed adultery
unfaithfulness	 n.
unfaltering	steadfast
unfamiliar	~ not well known
unfamiliarity	n.
unfasten	to undo, untie, or open or become undone, untied, or opene
unfathomable	so deep that the bottom cannot be reached
unfavorable	Adverse.
unfeigned	adj. not pretended; genuine or sincere
unfetter	 to release from fetters, bonds, etc.
unfettered	 [ unfetter: ] to release from fetters, bonds, etc.
unfinished	 incomplete or imperfect
unfit	~ not of the required standard; unsuitable
unflagging	 adj. not showing signs of tiredness; untiring
unflappable	adj. remaining calm in a crisis; imperturbable
unfledged	immature
unfold	open or spread out from a folded state
unforeseen	 adj. not known inadvance; unexpected
unformed	 adj. not having developed fully; immature
unfortunate	havingor causing bad luck; unlucky
unfortunately	adv. ~ regrettably; unluckily
unfounded	adj. with no basis in fact; groundless
unfriendly	 adj. ~ (to/towards sb) hostile or unsympathetic
unfrock	v. dismiss from the priesthood
unfurl	 v. unroll, unfold or spread out
ungainly	 adj. clumsy or awkward; not graceful
ungovernable	 adj. impossible or difficult to control; violent
ungrudging	 adj. liberal; unstinted; willing
unguarded	not guarded
unguent	ointment
unhappy	sad or miserable; not happy
unhealthy	not having or not showing good health
unhesitating	 steadfast; unwavering
unhinge	v. cause to become mentally unbalanced
unicellular	adj. (of an organism) consisting of a single cell
unicorn	n. mythical animal resemblinga horse with a single straight horn projecting from its forehead .
unidentified	 adj. that cannot be identified
unification	n.
unified	[ unify: ]
uniform	adj. not changing in form or character; unvarying
uniformity	 sameness; consistency; monotony
uniformly	[ uniform: ] a prescribed identifying set of clothes for the members of an organization, such as soldiers or schoolchildren
unify	v. form (sth) into a single unit or make uniform
unilateral	 adj. done by or affecting one person, group, country, etc and not another; one-sided
unimpeachable	adj. that cannot be doubted or questioned; trustworthy
uninhibited	unrepressed
uninspired	 adj. without imagination or inspiration; dull
unintelligible	 adj. impossible to understand
uninterested	 adj. ~ having or showing no interest or concern; indifferent; .
union	~ (act or instance of) uniting or being united
unionization	 [ unionize: ] to organize (workers) into a trade union
unique	being the only one of its type
uniquely	 adv: She is uniquely suited to the job
uniqueness	 n.
unison	 n. in unison (with sb/sth) sounding or singing together the same musical note (or the same note in different octaves)
unit	individual thing, person or group regarded for purposes of calculation, etc as single and complete, or as part of a complex whole
unitarian	n, adj of the Christian religious sect which rejects the doctrine of the Trinity and believes that God is one person
unitary	of a unit or units
unite	~ (with sb/sth) (cause people or things to) become one; come or bring together; join
unity	state of being one or a unit; oneness
universal	adj. of, belonging to, affecting or done by all people or things in the world or in a particular group
universality	 n.
universally	adv. by everyone or in every case
universe	the universe all existing things, including the earth and its creatures and all the stars, planets, etc in space
university	 n. (colleges,buildings, etc of an) institution that teaches and examinesstudents in many branches of advanced learning, awardingdegrees and providing facilities for academic research
univocal	 unambiguous or unmistakable
unjust	 adj. not just; not fair or deserved
unjustifiable	adj. that cannot be justified or excused
unjustly	 adv: She was unjustly imprisoned without trial
unkempt	adj. not kept tidy; looking dishevelled or neglected
unkind	 adj. not having or showing kindness; cruel or harsh
unknown	not known or identified
unlawful	 adj. against the law; illegal
unleash	v. ~ sth set sth free from a leash or restraint
unless	 conj if...not; except if or except when ;
unlettered	 adj. unable to read; uneducated ;
unlike	 adj. dissimilar; different
unlikely	 adj. not likely or expected to happen
unlimited	adj. not limited; very great in number or quantity
unload	~ sth (from sth) remove a load from (sth); remove (a load) from sth
unlock	unfasten the lock of using a key
unlucky	adj. not lucky; having or bringing bad luck; unfortunate
unmitigated	adj. having no accompanying advantages whatever; complete; absolute
unmoved	adj. not affected by feelings of pity, sympathy, etc
unnatural	not natural or normal; differing from what is the usual or expected
unnaturally	adv: Not unnaturally, she was greatly upset by her father's sudden death. * an unnaturally jovial manner
unnecessary	adj. not necessary or desirable; superfluous
unnoticed	adj. not observed or noticed
unobtrusive	adj. not too obvious or easily noticeable; not drawing attention to itself or himself; discreet
unorthodox	 adj. not in accordance with what is orthodox, conventional or traditional
unpack	 v. take packed things out of (sth)
unpaid	not yet paid
unpalatable	not palatable; unpleasant to taste
unpleasant	 adj. not pleasant; disagreeable
unpopular	adj. ~ not popular; not liked or enjoyed by a person, a group or people in general
unprecedented	adj. without precedent; never having happened, been done or been known before
unpredictable	adj. that cannot be predicted
unpremeditated	 adj. not previously and deliberately considered or planned; spontaneous
unprepossessing	adj. not attractive or appealing in appearance
unpretentious	adj. not showy or pompous; modest
unprincipled	 adj. without moral principles; unscrupulous; dishonest
unproductive	 not productive of (anything)
unprofitable	 not making a profit
unprovoked	 adj. without provocation; not caused by previous action
unqualified	adj. ~ (as sth/for sth/to do sth) without legal or official qualifications for doing sth
unquestionable	 adj. beyond doubt; certain; indisputable
unravel	(cause sth woven, knotted or tangled to) separate into strands
unreadiness	[ unready: ] not ready or prepared
unreasonable	not reasonable in attitude, etc
unreasoning	adj. (of a person or of attitudes, beliefs, etc) not using or guided by reason
unrefined	(of substances such as petroleum, ores, and sugar) not processed into a pure or usable form
unregenerate	 unrepentant; unreformed
unrelenting	adv. not reducing in intensity, etc; continuous; relentless
unremitting	adj. never relaxingor ceasing; incessant; persistent
unrequited	 adj. (esp of love) not returned or rewarded
unreserved	not reserved for or allocated to a particular personin advance
unreservedly	 adv. without reservation or restriction; openly
unrestrained	 adj. not restrained; not held back or controlled; unchecked
unruly	 adj. not easy to control or discipline; disorderly
unsaid	not expressed; unspoken
unsavory	 distasteful; morally offensive
unscathed	adj. not injured or hurt; unharmed
unschooled	 having received no training or schooling
unscientific	 not consistent with the methods or principles of science, esp. lacking objectivity
unscrew	v. loosen (a screw, nut, etc) by turning it; unfasten (sth) by removing screws
unscrupulous	 adj. withoutmoral principles
unscrupulousness n.
	unscrupulousness n.
unseemly	 adj. (of behaviour,etc) not proper or seemly; unbecoming
unselfish	adj. not selfish or greedy; generous
unsettle	 v. disturb the normal calm state of (sth/sb); upset
unsettled	adj. unstable or upset or disturbed
unsettling	to change or become changed from a fixed or settled condition
unsightly	adj. not pleasant to look at; ugly
unskilled	adj. not having or requiringspecial skill or training
unskillful	 [ unskilful: ] lacking dexterity or proficiency
unskillfulness	 [ unskilful: ] lacking dexterity or proficiency
unsophisticated	simple and natural
unsound	in poor condition; weak
unspeakable	adj. that cannot be expressed in words; indescribable
unspeakably	adv: an unspeakably vile habit
unspoiled	unspoilt
unspoken	 understood without needing to be spoken; tacit
unspotted	without spots or stains
unstable	likely to move or fall; not firm
unsteady	not firm or secure
unstinting	 adj. ~ givingfreely and generously
unstintingly	 adj.
unstudied	adj. natural and unaffected
untapped	 adj. not yet used or exploited
untenable	adj. that cannot be defended
unthinkable	adj. too unlikely or undesirable to be considered; inconceivable
untidy	 adj. not neat or orderly
untie	to unfasten or free (a knot or something that is tied) or (of a knot or something that is tied) to become unfastened
until	conj up to the time when
untimely	happening at an unsuitable time
untitled	 without a title
unto	 prep. to
untold	not told
untoward	 adj. inconvenient or unfortunate; awkward
untried	adj. not yet tried or tested
untruth	n. (fml euph) untrue statement; lie
untutored	adj. untaught or untrained; unsophisticated
unusual	rare or exceptional
unusually	adv. exceptionally or extremely
unutterable	adj. too great, intense, etc to be expressed in words
unutterably	adv: unutterably foolish
unversed	 adj. ~ in sth not experienced or skilled in sth
unwanted	 adj. not wanted
unwarranted	adj. unjustified or unauthorized
unwelcome	(of persons) not welcome
unwieldy	 adj. awkward to move or control because of its shape, size or weight
unwilling	adj. not willing or inclinedto do sth; reluctant
unwillingly	adv: agree unwillingly to a request
unwillingness	[ unwilling: ] unfavourably inclined; reluctant
unwind	~ sth (from sth) (cause sth to) become drawn out from a roll, ball, etc
unwise	 adj. not wise; foolish
unwitting	not knowing or aware
unwittingly	adv: If I offended you it was unwittingly.
unwonted	 adj. not customary or usual
unworldly	adj. spiritually-minded; not worldly
unworthy	lacking worth or merit
unwound	pt, pp of unwind
unyielding	 adj. ~ not giving way to pressure or influence, etc; firm
unyoke	 To separate.
up	to or in an upright position (esp one suggesting readiness for activity)
upbraid	v. ~ sb (dated or fml ) scold or reproach sb
upcast	 A throwing upward.
update	bring up to date; modernize
upgrade	v. ~ sb/sth raise sb/sth to a higher grade or rank
upheaval	 n. sudden violent upwardmovement
upheave	To raise or lift with effort.
uphold	support (a decision, etc) against attack
upholster	v. ~ sth provide (an armchair, etc) with padding, springs, fabric covering, etc
upholsterer	n. person whose trade is to upholster furniture
upholstery	trade of an upholsterer
upon	= on
upper	higher in place or position; situated above another part
uppermost	adj. highest in place or position or importance
upright	in a vertical position; erect
uprightness	n.
uproar	 n. noise and excitement or anger; tumult
uproarious	 adj. very noisy or high-spirited
uproot	pull out of the ground together with its roots
upset	(cause sth to) become overturned or spilt, esp accidentally
upshot	 n. the ~ the final result or outcome
upside-down	adj. adv with the upper part underneath instead of on top
upstage	at or towards the back of a theatre stage
upstairs	up the stairs; to or on an upper floor
upstart	n. person who has suddenly risen to wealth or a high position, esp one who behaves arrogantly and causes resentment
upsurge	n. ~ (in sth) sudden increase in sth; rise
upswing	n. ~ (esp sudden) upward movement or trend; improvement
uptake	 n. quick/,slow on the `uptake quick/slow to understand what is meant
uptight	nervously tense
up-to-date	 adj. modern or fashionable
upturn	 n. ~ upward trend in business, fortune, etc; improvement
upward	 adj. moving, leading or pointing to what is higher, more important, etc
upwards	from a lower to a higher place, level, condition, etc.
uranium	n. chemical element,a heavy grey radioactive metal used as a source of nuclear energy .
urban	adj. of, situated in or living in a city or town
urbane	 adj. having or showing refined manners, smooth elegance and sophistication
urbanity	 Refined or elegant courtesy.
urchin	(esp dated ) mischievous or naughty child, esp a boy
urge	drive forcibly or hurry in a certain direction
urgency	The pressure of necessity.
urgent	needing immediate attention, action or decision
ursine	 bearlike; pertaining to a bear
us	 pers pron me and another or others; me and you
usage	manner of using sth; treatment
use	v. ~ sth (for sth/doing sth); ~ sth (as sth) employ sth for a purpose; bring sth into service
used	,
useful	that can be used for some practical purpose; serviceable or helpful
usefully	 adv: Is there anything I can usefully do here?
useless	not serving a useful purpose; not producing good results
user	 n. person or thing that uses
user-friendly	adj. easy for non-experts to use; not difficult or intimidating
usher	person who shows people to their seats in a cinema, church, public hall, etc or into sb's presence
usual	such as happens or is done or used, etc in many or most instances; customary
usually	adv. in the way that is usual; most often
usurious	 Taking unlawful or exorbitant interest on money loaned.
usurp	v. take (sb's power, right, position) wrongfully or by force
usury	n. (lending of money at) excessively high interest
utensil	n. implement or container, esp for everyday use in the home
utilise	vt. (=utilize) to put to use, especially to find a profitable or practical use for
utilitarian	designed to be useful rather than luxurious or decorative, etc; severely practical
utilitarianism	 The ethical doctrine that actions are right because they are useful or of beneficial tendency.
utility	quality of being useful
utilization	[ utilize: ] to make practical or worthwhile use of
utilize	to make practical or worthwhile use of
utmost	 adj. greatest; furthest; most extreme
utopia	 n. imaginary place or state of things in which everything is perfect
utopian	adj. having or aiming for the perfection of Utopia but impossible to achieve; idealistic
utter	adj. complete; total; absolute
utterly	adv: She utterly despises him. * We failed utterly to convince them
uxorious	 adj. excessively fond of one's wife
vacancy	unoccupied accommodation
vacant	not filled or occupied; empty
vacate	 v. cease to occupy (a place or position)
vacation	any of the intervals between terms in universities and lawcourts
vaccinate	v. ~ sb/sth protect sb/sth (against a disease) by injecting vaccine
vaccination	n. vaccinating or being vaccinated
vaccine	n. substance that is injected into the bloodstream and protects the body by making it have a mild form of the disease
vacillate	v. ~ (fml usu derog , ) keep changing one's mind; move backwards and forwards between two emotions
vacillation	n. (instance of) vacillating
vacuity	lack ofpurpose, meaning or intelligence
vacuous	adj. showing or suggesting absence of thought or intelligence; inane
vacuousness	n.
vacuum	space that is completely empty of all matter orgas(es)
vagabond	 n. wanderer or vagrant, esp an idle or dishonest one
vagary	 n. strange,unusual or capricious change; whim
vagrancy	 n. being a vagrant
vagrant	n. person without a settled home or regular work; tramp
vague	not clearly expressed or perceived
vagueness	n.
vain	;
vainglorious	 adj. full of vainglory; conceited and boastful ;
vainglory	n. extreme vanity or pride in oneself; boastfulness ;
valance	n. short curtain or frill hung around the frame of a bed
vale	 n. valley
valediction	n. (words used in) saying farewell, esp on serious occasions
valedictorian	n. student giving a valedictory
valedictory	adj. serving as or accompanying a farewell
valetudinarian	 n. person who pays excessive attention to preserving his health
valiant	adj. brave or determined
valid	legally effective because made or done with the correct formalities
validate	make legally valid; ratify
validation	 n.
validity	state of beinglegally acceptable
valise	 n. small leather bag for clothes, etc during a journey
valley	stretch of land between hills or mountains, often with a river flowing through it .
valor	bravery
valorous	 Courageous.
valour	bravery, esp in war
valuable	worth a lot of money
value	worth of sth in terms of money or other goods for which it can be exchanged
valueless	adj. without value or effect; worthless ; .
valve	mechanical device for controlling the flow of air, liquid or gas in one direction only
vamoose	v. (often imperative ) go away quickly
vamp	 n. upper front part of a boot or shoe
vampire	reanimated corpsebelieved by some to leave its grave at night and suck the blood of living people
van	covered vehicle, with no side windows, for transporting goods or people
vandalism	n. behaviour characteristic of vandals
vandalize	to destroy or damage (something) by an act of vandalis
vanguard	 n. the vanguard leading part of an advancing army or fleet
vanilla	tropical orchid with sweet-smelling flowers
vanish	 v. disappear completely and suddenly
vanity	having too high an opinion of one's looks, abilities, etc; conceit
vanquish	 v. ~ sb (fml ) defeat (an opponent, etc)
vanquished	 [ vanquish: ] to defeat or overcome in a battle, contest, etc.; conquer
vantage	position,etc that gives sb superiority or advantage
vapid	adj. dull or uninteresting
vapor	stim/mist
vaporize	 to convert (as by the application of heat or by spraying) into vapor
vaporized	[ vaporize: ] to change or cause to change into vapour or into the gaseous state
vaporizer	An atomizer.
vaporous	 adj. full of or like vapour
vapour	moisture or other substance spread about or hanging in the air
variability	n. quality of being variable; tendency to vary ;
variable	varying; changeable
variance	 n. at variance (with sb/sth) (fml ) disagreeing or having a difference of opinion (with sb); in conflict (with sth)
variant	n. thing that differs from other things or from a standard
variation	~ (degree of) varying or being variant
varied	of different sorts; diverse
variegate	To mark with different shades or colors.
variegated	 adj. marked irregularlywith differently coloured patches, streaks, spots, etc
variegation	n. such irregular colouring or marking
variety	quality of not being the same, or not being the same at all times
various	of several kinds, unlike one another
varnish	hard shiny transparent coating applied to the surface of esp woodwork or metalwork
vary	~ (in sth) be different in size, volume, strength, etc
vascular	 adj. of or containing vessels or ducts through which blood or lymph flows in animals or sap in plants
vase	 n. vessel without handles, usu made of glass, china, etc and used for holding cut flowers or as an ornament
vassal	man promising to fight for and be loyal to a king or lord in return for the right to hold land
vast	very large in area, size, quantity or degree; immense
vaudeville	 n. = variety 4
vault	n. arched roof; series of arches forming a roof
vaunt	v. boast about (sth); draw attention to (sth) in a conceited way
vaunted	[ vaunt: ] vt. to describe, praise, or display (one's success, possessions, etc.) boastfully
vaunting	 [ vaunt: ] vt. to describe, praise, or display (one's success, possessions, etc.) boastfully
veal	 n. flesh of a calf used as meat
vector	quantitythat has both magnitude and direction, eg velocity
veer	(esp of a vehicle) change direction or course
vegetable	plant eaten as food, eg potatoes, beans, onions
vegetal	Of or pertaining to plants.
vegetarian	 n. person who,for humane, religious or health reasons, eats no meat
vegetate	 v. live a dull life with little activity or interest
vegetation	 n. plants in general; those found in a particular environment
vegetative	 Pertaining to the process of plant-life.
vehemence	n. vehemently
vehement	 adj. showing or caused by strong feeling; passionate
vehicle	conveyance such as a car, lorry or cart used for transporting goods or passengers on land
veil	covering of fine net or other (usu transparent) material worn, esp by women, to protect or hide the face, or as part of a head-dress
vein	any of the tubes carrying blood from all parts of the body to the heart
vellum	fine parchment or bookbinding material made from calf, kid or lamb skin ,
velocity	(usu of inanimate things ) speed, esp in a given direction
velvet	woven fabric, esp of silk or nylon, with a thick soft nap on one side
velvety	adj. soft like velvet
venal	ready to accept money for doing sth dishonest
venality	 n. quality of being venal
vendetta	hereditary feud between families in which murders are committed in revenge for previous murders
vendible	 Marketable.
vendor	person who sells food or other small items from a stall in the open air
veneer	decorative wood or plastic glued to the surface of cheaper wood (for furniture, etc) ,
venerable	deserving respect because of age, character, associations, etc
venerate	 v. respect (sb/sth) deeply; regard as sacred
veneration	 regard with deep respect
venereal	 Pertaining to or proceeding from sexual intercourse.
vengeance	~ paying back of an injury that one has suffered; revenge
vengeful	 adj. showing a desire for revenge; vindictive ;
venial	 adj. not serious; excusable
venison	n. flesh of a deer used as meat
venom	poisonous fluid of certain snakes, scorpions, etc, injected by a bite or sting
venous	of or contained in the veins
vent	,
ventilate	cause air to enter and move freely through
ventilation	ventilating or being ventilated
ventral	adj. of or on the abdomen
ventriloquist	n. person skilled in this
venture	project or undertaking,esp a commercial one where there is a risk of failure
venturesome	adj. (of people) ready to take risks; daring
venue	n. place where people agree to meet, esp for a sports contest or match
Venus	n. the planet secondin order from the sun, next to the Earth
veracious	adj. (of a person) truthful
veracity	 n. truthfulness; truth
verb	 n. word or phrase indicating an action, an event or a state, eg bring, happen, exist
verbal	of or in words
verbalize	put into words
verbally	 adv. in spoken words, not in writing
verbatim	 adj. adv exactly as spoken or written; word for word
verbiage	 n. (use of) too many words, or unnecessarily difficult words,to express an idea, etc
verbose	adj. using or containing more words than are needed
verbosity	n. state or quality of being verbose
verdant	adj. (of grass, vegetation, fields, etc) fresh and green
verdict	decision reached by a jury on a question of fact in a law case
verdigris	n. greenish-blue substance that forms on copper, brass and bronze surfaces
verge	= soft shoulder (soft)
verifiable	 adj. that can be verified
verification	verifying or being verified
verified	 [ verify: ] to prove to be true; confirm; substantiate
verify	make sure that (sth) is true or accurate; check
verily	 In truth.
verisimilar	having the appearance of truth probable
verisimilitude	 n. appearance or semblance ofbeing true or real
veritable	adj. rightly named or called; real
verity	truth (of a statement, etc)
vermin	certain wild animals and birds which are harmful to crops and farmyard animals and birds
vernacular	 n. language or dialect spoken in a particular country or region, as compared with a formal or written language
vernal	 adj. of, in or appropriate to the season of spring
versatile	adj. turning easily or readily from one subject, skill or occupation to another
versatility	n.
verse	writing arranged in lines, often with a regular rhythm or rhyme scheme; poetry
versed	 adj. ~ in sth knowledgeable about or skilled in sth
version	account of an event, etc from the point of view of one person
versus	 prep (Latin ) against (sb/sth)
vertebrate	 n, adj having a backbone
vertex	 n. (fml) highest point or top; apex
vertical	at a right angle to another line or plane, or to the earth's surface
vertices	 pl of vertex
vertiginous	adj. of or causing vertigo
vertigo	n. feeling of losing one's balance, caused esp by looking down from a great height; dizziness
verve	n. enthusiasm, spirit or vigour, esp in artistic or literary work
very	in a high degree; extremely
vessel	ship or boat, esp a large one
vest	(Brit) (US undershirt) garment worn under a shirt, etc next to the skin
vestige	small remaining part of what once existed; trace
vestigial	adj. remaining as a vestige
vestment	 n. ceremonial garment, esp one worn by a priest in church ; ,
vesture	(archaic)
veteran	person with much or long experience, esp as a soldier
veterinary	 adj. of or for the diseases and injuries of animals
veto	 n. constitutional right to reject or forbid a legislative proposal or action
vex	anger or annoy (sb), esp with trivial matters
vexation	state of being annoyed or worried
vexing	 [ vex: ] to anger or annoy
via	prep by way of (sth); through
viability	n.
viable	sound and workable; feasible
viaduct	n. long bridge, usu with many arches, carrying a road or railway across a valley or dip in the ground
viand	food
viands	 [ viand: ] a type of food, esp. a delicacy
vibrancy	 n.
vibrant	vibrating strongly; resonant
vibrate	move rapidly and continuously backwards and forwards; shake
vibration	vibrating movement or sensation
vicar	n. clergyman in charge of a parish where tithes formerly belonged to another person or an institution
vicarious	felt or experienced indirectly, by sharing imaginatively in the feelings, activities, etc of another person
vicariously	adv.
vice	evil or unprincipled conduct; wickedness
vicelike	 [ vice: ] an immoral, wicked, or evil habit, action, or trait
viceroy	n. person governing a colony, province, etc as the deputy of a sovereign
vicinity	 n. in the vicinity (of sth) (fml ) in the surrounding district; in the neighbourhood
vicious	acting or done with evil intentions; spiteful
viciousness	n.
vicissitude	n. (fml ) change in one's circumstances,esp for the worse
vicissitudes	 [ vicissitude: ] variation or mutability in nature or life, esp. successive alternation from one condition or thing to another
victim	person, animal or thing thatis injured, killed or destroyed as the result of carelessness,crime or misfortune
victimize	to subject to deception or fraud:CHEAT
victor	 n. winner of a battle, contest, game, etc
victorian	of, living in or dating from the reign of Queen Victoria 1837-1901
victorious	 adj. ~ ~ (over sb/sth) having gained a victory; triumphant
victory	n. success in a war, contest, game, etc
victual	v. supply (sth) with food and stores
victuals	 n. food and drink; provisions ;
video	recording or broadcasting of moving pictures, as distinct from sound, by using television
vie	v. ~ with sb (for sth/to do sth); ~ for sth (fml ) compete keenly with sb (for sth); rival sb for sth
view	state of seeing or being seen from a particular place; field of vision
viewer	person who views sth
viewpoint	n. = point of view (point)
vigil	staying awake, esp at night, to keep watch or to pray
vigilance	watchfulness
vigilant	 adj. looking out for possible danger, trouble, etc; watchful or alert
vigilante	n. member of a self-appointed group of people who try to prevent crime and disorder in a community
vignette	illustration, esp on the title-page of a book, but not in a definite border
vigor	active bodily or mental strength or force
vigorous	 adj. strong, active or energetic
vigorously	 [ vigorous: ] endowed with bodily or mental strength or vitality; robust
vigour	 n. physical strength or energy; vitality
vile	extremely disgusting
vilify	 v. (fml ) say evil or insulting things about (sb); slander
villa	(usu as part of an address ) large detached or semi-detached house in a suburban or residential district
village	group of houses, shops, etc, usu with a church and situated in a country district
villager	 n. person who lives in a village
villain	person guilty or capable of great wickedness
villainous	characteristic of a villain; wicked
villein	n. feudal tenant of land who was entirely subject to his lord
vim	n. energy orvigour
vincible	 Conquerable.
vindicate	clear (sb/sth) of blame or suspicion
vindication	n. vindicating or being vindicated
vindicative	Revengeful.
vindicatory	Punitive.
vindictive	 adj. having or showing a desire for revenge; unforgiving
vine	climbing or trailing plant with a woody stem whose fruit is the grape
vinegar	n. sour liquid made from malt, wine, cider, etc by fermentation and used for flavouring food and for pickling
vinegared	[ vinegar: ] a sour-tasting liquid consisting of impure dilute acetic acid, made by oxidation of the ethyl alcohol in beer, wine, or cider. It is used as a condiment or preservative
vinery	 A greenhouse for grapes.
vintner	n. wine-merchant
vinyl	n. tough flexible plastic, esp PVC, used for making raincoats, records, book covers, etc
viol	 A stringed instrument of the violin class.
viola	n. stringed musical instrument played with a bow, of larger size than a violin .
violate	break or be contrary to
violation	n. violatingor being violated
violence	violent conduct, esp of an unlawful kind
violent	using, showing or caused by strong (esp unlawful) physical force
violently	* The door slammed violently. * He fell violently in love with her
violet	small wild or garden plant, usu with sweet-smelling purple or white flowers .
violin	 n. stringed musical instrument held under the chin and played with a bow .
violoncello	A stringed instrument held between the player's knees.
viper	any of various types of poisonous snake found in Africa, Asia and Europe ,
virago	 n. (fml ) violent and bad-tempered woman who scolds and shouts
viral	=> virus
virgin	person, esp a girl or woman, who has never had sexual intercourse
virginal	 adj. of orsuitable for a virgin
virile	(of men) having procreative power; sexually potent
virility	sexual potency
virtu	Rare, curious, or beautiful quality.
virtual	adj. being or acting as what is described, but not accepted as such in name or officially
virtually	adv. in every important respect; almost
virtue	moral goodness or excellence
virtuosity	 n. skill of a virtuoso
virtuoso	 n. person who is exceptionally skilled in the techniques of a fine art, esp playing a musical instrument or singing
virtuous	having or showing moral virtue
virulence	Extreme poisonousness.
virulent	extremely harmful or deadly
virus	n. simple organism, smaller than bacteria, and causing infectious disease
visa	 n. stamp or mark put on a passport by officials of a foreign country to show that the holder may enter, pass through or leave their country
visage	 n. person'sface
visceral	of the viscera
viscid	 adhesive; gluey
viscosity	Heavy gluey quality.
viscount	noblemanranking higher than a baron but lower than an earl
viscountcy	 n. title or rank of a viscount
viscous	adj. not pouringeasily; thick and sticky
vise	 tool for holding work in place
visibility	fact or state of being visible
visible	that can be seen; in sight
visibly	adv. noticeably
vision	power of seeing; sight
visionary	having or showing foresight or wisdom
visit	go or come to see (a person, place, etc) either socially or on business or for some other purpose
visitor	one who visits a person or place
vista	view as seen between long rows of trees, buildings, etc
visual	 adj. concerned with or used in seeing
visualize	To give pictorial vividness to a mental representation.
visually	in seeing
vital	connected with or essential to life
vitalism	 the philosophical doctrine that the phenomena of life cannot be explained in purely mechanical terms because there is something immaterial which distinguishes living from inanimate matter
vitality	persistent energy; liveliness or vigour
vitalize	 To endow with life or energy.
vitally	adv. extremely
vitamin	n. any of a numberof organic substances which are present in certain foods and are essential to the health of humans and other animals
vitiate	weaken or spoil the quality or efficiency of (sth)
vitreous	 adj. having a glass-like texture or finish
vitrify	v. (cause sth to) be changed into a glass-like substance, esp by heat
vitriol	sulphuric acid or any of its salts
vitriolic	adj. savagely and bitterlyhostile
vituperate	~ (against sb/sth) (fml ) use abusive languageor bitter criticism; revile sb/sth ;
vituperative	 adj. vituperative debate, criticism, etc
vivacious	adj. (esp of a woman) lively or high-spirited
vivacity	 Liveliness.
vivid	strong and bright; intense
vivify	 To endue with life.
vivisection	n. practice of performing surgical experiments on live animals for scientific research
vivisectionist	 n. person who performs vivisections
vixen	female fox
vixenish	 adj. her nasty, vixenish ways
vocable	a word, especially one regarded in relation merely to its qualities of sound.
vocabulary	total number of words that make up a language
vocal	of, for or uttered by the voice
vocalist	 n. singer, esp in a jazz or pop group
vocally	in a way that uses the voice
vocation	~ feeling that one is called to (and qualified for) a certain kind of work, esp social or religious
vocational	 adj. of or concerning the qualifications, etc needed for a trade or profession
vocative	 n. special form of a noun, a pronoun or an adjective used (in some inflected languages) when addressing or invoking a person or thing
vociferate	 v. say (sth) loudly or noisily; shout ;
vociferous	 adj. loudor noisy; expressing one's views forcibly and insistently
vogue	~ current or prevailing fashion
voice	sounds formed in the larynx and uttered through the mouth, esp by a person speaking or singing
void	 n. (fml or rhet ) empty space; vacuum
volant	 Flying or able to fly.
volatile	changing rapidly into vapour
volatility	 n.
volcanic	 adj. of, from or like a volcano
volcanism	vulcanism
volcano	n. mountain or hill with an opening or openings through which lava, cinders, gases, etc come up from below the earth's surface (an active volcano), may come up after an interval (a dormant volcano)
vole	 n. small animal resembling a rat or mouse and living in hedgerows, river-banks, etc
volition	act of using one's will in choosing, making a decision, etc
volitional	 adj. a volitional act
volitive	 Exercising the will.
volley	simultaneous throwing or firing of a number of stones, bullets, etc
volleyball	 a game in which two teams hit a large ball back and forth over a high net with their hands
volt	 n. unit of electrical force, defined as the force needed to carry one ampere of current against one ohm of resistance
voltage	n. electrical force measured in volts
volubility	 fluency/verbosity/easy use of spoken language
voluble	adj. (of a person) speaking a lot; talkative
volume	book, esp one of a matching set or a series
voluminous	(of clothing etc) using much material; loose-fitting or ample
voluntarily	without compulsion; willingly ;
voluntary	acting,done or given willingly
volunteer	~ person who offers to do sth without being compelled or paid
voluptuary	 n. person who seeks and enjoys luxury and sensual pleasure
voluptuous	giving a feeling of luxury or sensual pleasure
vomit	~ sth eject (food, etc from the stomach) through the mouth; be sick
voodoo	 n. form of religion based on belief in witchcraft and magical rites, practised by blacks in the W Indies, esp in Haiti ,
voracious	very greedy in eating; ravenous
voracity	 n.
vortex	whirling mass of water, air, etc, as in a whirlpool or whirlwind
votary	 n. ~ (fml ) person who dedicates himself to sth, esp religious workand service
vote	~ ~ (on sth) formal expression of one's opinion or choice eg by ballot or show of hands
voter	n. person who votes or has the right to vote, esp in a political election
voting	 [ straw: ] an indication of choice, opinion, or will on a question, such as the choosing of a candidate, by or as if by some recognized means, such as a ballot
votive	 adj. presented to fulfil a promise made to God
vouch	~ for sb/sth take responsibility for or express confidence in (a person, his behaviour, etc); guarantee
vouchsafe	v. ~ sth (dated or fml ) grant sth (to sb) as a gift or privilege
vow	n. solemn promise or undertaking, esp of a religious nature
vowel	n. speech-sound made without audible stopping of the breath by the tongue, lips, etc
voyage	 n. long journey, esp by sea or in space
voyeur	 n. person who gets pleasure from watching in secret others undressing or engaging in sexual activities
voyeurism	n. state orpractice of being a voyeur
voyeuristic	adj. voyeuristic pleasures, pursuits, etc
vulgar	lacking in good taste or refinement
vulgarity	n. rude or obscene act or expression
vulnerability	n.
vulnerable	that can be hurt, wounded or injured
vulpine	adj. of or like a fox
vulture	large bird, usu with head and neck almost bare of feathers, that lives on the flesh of dead animals
vying	pres p of vie
wacky	esp US) eccentric or crazy; zany
waddle	 v. walk with short steps and a swaying movement, as a duck does
wade	walk with an effort (through water, mud or anything that makes walking difficult)
waffle	 n. small crisp cake made of cooked batter with a pattern of squares on it, often eaten with syrup ,
waft	 v. be carried lightly and smoothly (as if) through the air
wag	(cause sth to) move quickly from side to side or up and down
wage	 n. regular (usu weekly) payment made or received for work or services
waggish	adj. of, like, done or made by a wag
waggon	 any of various types of wheeled vehicles, ranging from carts to lorries, esp. a vehicle with four wheels drawn by a horse, tractor, etc., and used for carrying crops, heavy loads, etc.
wagon	any of various types of wheeled vehicles, ranging from carts to lorries, esp. a vehicle with four wheels drawn by a horse, tractor, etc., and used for carrying crops, heavy loads, etc.
waif	homeless person, esp an abandoned child
wail	~ (about/over sth) cry or complain (about sth) in a loud (usu shrill) voice
wainscot	 n. wooden covering, esp panelling on the walls of a room
waist	part of the body between the ribs and the hips, usu narrower than the rest of the trunk
waistcoat	n. close-fitting sleeveless garment, buttoned down the front, usu worn under a jacket or coat and often forming part of a man's suit
waisted	adj. becoming narrower at the waist
wait	~ (for sb/sth) stay where one is, delay acting, etc for a specified time or until sb or sth comes or until sth happens
waiter	 n. person employed to take customers' orders, bring food, etc in a restaurant, hotel dining-room, etc
waitress	 a woman who serves at table, as in a restaurant
waive	v. not insist on (sth) in a particular case; forego
wake	~(up) stop sleeping
waken	v. wake from sleep; awaken ;
walk	(of a person) move along at a moderate pace by lifting up and putting down each foot in turn, so that one foot is on the ground while the other is being lifted
wall	continuous upright solid structure of stone, brick, concrete, etc used to enclose, divide or protect sth (eg an area of land)
wallet	 (US also `billfold, `pocket-book)n small flat folding case, usu made of leather, carried in the pocket and used esp for holding banknotes, documents, etc ,
wallop	hit (sb/sth) hard; thrash
wallow	lie and roll about in mud, water, etc
walnut	nut containing an edible kernel with a wrinkled surface in a pair of boat-shaped shells .
walrus	 n. large sea-animal living in the Arctic regions, similar to a seal but having two long tusks
waltz	n. ballroom dance for couples, with a graceful flowing melody in triple time
wampum	 n. ornaments made of shells threaded on a string like beads, used formerly by N American Indians as money ,
wan	adj. (of a person, his appearance, etc) pale and looking ill or tired; pallid
wander	move around in an area or go from place to place without any special purpose or destination; roam
wanderer	 n. person or animal that wanders
wanderlust	 n. strong desire to travel
wane	show a gradually decreasing area of brightness after being full
wangle	~ sth (out of sb) get or arrange sth that one wants by using trickery or clever persuasion
want	have a desire for (sth); wish for
wanton	done deliberately for no good reason; wilful
war	(state of) fighting between nations or groups within a nation using military force
warble	 v. (esp of a bird) sing in a continuous gentle trilling way
ward	separate part or room in a hospital for a particular group of patients
warden	person responsible for supervising sth
wardrobe	place where clothes are stored, usu a large cupboard with shelves and a rail for hanging things on
ware	manufactured goods (of the specified type)
warehouse	n. building where goods are stored before being sent to shops
warfare	n. (fighting a) war
warlike	adj. fond of or skilled in fighting; aggressive
warm	of or at a fairly high temperature, between cool and hot
warmonger	n. person who tries to cause a war or who favours war
warmth	 n. (also warmness) state of being warm
warn	~ sb (of sth) give sb notice of sth, esp possible danger or unpleasant consequences; inform sb in advance of what may happen
warning	statement, event, etc that warns
warp	become bent or twisted from the usual or natural shape, esp because of uneven shrinkage or expansion
warrant	~ written order giving authority to do sth
warranted	[ warrant: ] anything that gives authority for an action or decision; authorization; sanction
warranty	guarantee, esp one given to the buyer of an article, promising to repair or replace it if necessary
warren	area of land with many burrows in which rabbits live and breed
warrior	(esp formerly) person who fights in battle; soldier
wary	 adj. ~ (of sb/sth) looking out for possible danger or difficulty; cautious
wash	act of cleaning or being cleaned with water
wasp	 n. any of several types of flying insect, the most common of which has black and yellow stripes, a narrow waist and a powerful sting in its tail
waspish	adj. making sharp comments or replies; irritable or snappish
waste	that is not (fit to be) used; not inhabited or cultivated
wasteful	 adj. causing waste
wasteland	n. area of land that is not or cannot be used; barren or desolate land
wastrel	n. lazy good-for-nothing person
watch	(in a ship) period of duty (usu four hours) for part of the crew
watchful	 adj. watching or observing closely; alert
water	liquid without colour, smell or taste that falls as rain, is in lakes, rivers and seas, and is used for drinking, washing, etc
watercolor	water-soluble pigment, applied in transparent washes and without the admixture of white pigment in the lighter tones
watercourse	n. stream, brook or man-made waterway
waterfall	n. stream or river that falls from a height, eg over rocks or a cliff
waterfront	 n. street, part of a town, etc that is next to water ,
waterlogged	adj. (of timber) so saturated with water or (of a ship) so full of water that it will barely float
waterproof	 adj. that cannot be penetrated by water
watershed	n. line of high land where streams on one side flow into one river or sea and streams on the other side flow into a different river or sea
waterspout	 n. funnel-shaped column of water between the sea and the clouds, formed when a whirlwind draws up a whirling mass of water
watertight	made or fastened so that water cannot get in or out
watery	of or like water
watt	 n. unit of electrical power
wave	move regularly and loosely to and fro or up and down
wavelength	distance between the corresponding points in a sound wave or an electromagnetic wave
wavelet	A ripple.
waver	be or become weak or unsteady; falter
waverer	n: The strength of his argument convinced the last few waverers
wavy	 abounding in or full of waves
wax	soft sticky yellow substance produced by bees and used by them for making honeycombs
waxy	 adj. having a surface or texture like wax
way	place for walking, travelling, etc along; path, road, street, etc
waylay	 v. (pt, pp waylaid )wait for and stop (sb who is passing), esp in order to rob him or to ask him for sth
wayward	adj. not easily controlled or guided; childishly headstrong or capricious
we	 we
weak	lacking strength or power; easily broken, bent or defeated
weaken	become weak or weaker
weakening	to become or cause to become weak or weaker
weak-kneed	 adj. (of a person) lacking determination or courage
weakness	state of being weak
weal	 n. raised mark on the skin made by hitting it with a stick, whip, etc
wealth	large amount of money, property, etc; riches
wealthy	adj. having wealth; rich ;
wean	~ sb/sth (on to sth) gradually stop feeding (a baby or young animal) with its mother's milk and start feeding it with solid food
weapon	thing designed or used for causing physical harm
weaponry	 n. weapons
wear	wearing or being worn as clothing
weariness	n.
wearisome	adj. causing one to feel tired or bored
weary	very tired, esp as a result of effort or endurance; exhausted
weasel	 n. small fierce animal with reddish-brown fur, that lives on rats, rabbits, birds' eggs, etc
weather	condition of the atmosphere at a certain place and time, with reference to temperature and the presence of rain, sunshine, wind, etc
weather-beaten	 adj. tanned, damaged, roughened, etc as a result of being exposed to the sun and wind
weave	v. ~ sth (from sth) make (fabric, etc) by passing threads or strips crosswise over and under lengthwise ones, by hand or on a machine
weaver	person whose job is weaving cloth
web	network of fine threads spun by a spider or some other spinning creature
webbed	 adj. having the toes joined by webs
wed	v. (dated or journalism ) (not in the continuous tenses ) marry
wedding	marriage ceremony
wedge	piece of wood or metal that is thick at one end and narrows at the other to a sharp edge, used eg to split wood or rock, to widen an opening or to keep things apart
Wednesday	n. the fourth day of the week, next after Tuesday
wee	little
weed	wild plant growing where it is not wanted, esp among crops or garden plants
week	period of seven days, usu reckoned from midnight on Saturday
weekday	n. any day except Sunday
weekend	n. Saturday and Sunday
weekly	 adj. adv once a week or every week
weep	~ (for/over sb/sth) shed tears; cry
weigh	measure how heavy is by means of scales, a balance, etc
weight	degree of heaviness of a thing, esp as measured on a balance, weighing-machine, etc and expressed according to a particular system of measuring
weird	(frightening because it is) unnatural, uncanny or strange
welcome	received with or giving pleasure
weld	~ A and B (together); ~ A (on) to B join (pieces of metal) by hammering or pressing (usu when the metal is softened by heat) or fuse them by using an oxy-acetylene flame or an electric arc
welfare	good health, happiness, prosperity, etc of a person or group
well	shaft dug in the ground, usu lined with brick or stone, for obtaining water from an underground source
well-bred	adj. having or showing good manners
well-groomed	 (of a person) having a tidy pleasing appearance
well-informed	adj. having knowledge or information
well-intentioned adj. intended or intending to be helpful, useful, etc
	well-intentioned adj. intended or intending to be helpful, useful, etc
well-known	 adj. known to many people; familiar or famous ;
well-to-do	 adj. prosperous; wealthy ;
welsh	adj. of Wales, its people or its language
welt	strip of leather round the edge of the upperof a shoe, to which the sole is stitched
welter	 n. ~ of sth/sb disorderly mixture of things or people; general confusion
went	 pt of go1
wept	 pt, pp of weep
west	the west point on the horizon where the sun sets; one of the four main points of the compass
western	of or in the west
westernmost	adj. farthest west
westward	 adj. towards the west
westwards	adv: travel westward.
wet	covered, soaked or moistened with liquid, esp water
whack	v. strike or beat (sb/sth) vigorously
whacked	adj. (of a person) tired out; exhausted
whale	any of several types of very large mammal that live in the sea, some of which are hunted for their oil and flesh
wharf	n. structure made of wood or stone at the water's edge, where ships may moor to load or unload cargo
what	 )
whatever	any or every
wheat	grain from which flour (for bread, etc) is made
wheedle	v. ~ sth (out of sb) obtain sth by being pleasant to or flattering sb
wheel	disc or circular frame that turns on an axle, as on carts, cars, bicycles, etc or as part of a machine, etc
wheelbarrow	n. open container for moving small loads in, with a wheel at one end, and two legs and two handles at the other
whelm	to engulf entirely with or as if with water
whelp	young animal of the dog family; puppy or cub ;
when	 interrog adv at what time; on what occasion
whenever	at any time, regardless of when
where	interrog adv in or to what place or position
where??are concerned 
	where??are concerned 
whereabouts	interrog adv in or near what place; where
whereas	taking into consideration the fact that ...
whereby	by which
whereupon	conj after which; and then
wherever	in any place, regardless of where
wherewith	The necessary means or resources.
wherry	 any of certain kinds of half-decked commercial boats, such as barges, used in Britain
whet	(fml ) sharpen (the blade of a knife, an axe, etc), esp by rubbing with a stone
whether	conj. (used as the object of vs like know, doubt, wonder, etc know doubt wonder)
whetstone	n. shaped stone used for sharpening tools, eg chisels, scythes, etc
which	interrog det (used to ask sb to specify one or more people or things from a limited number )
whichever	the person or thing which
whiff	n. ~ faint smell or puff of air or smoke
while	time
whilst	(Chiefly Brit)
whim	 n. sudden desire or idea, esp an unusual or unreasonable one; caprice
whimper	,
whimsical	adj. full of whimsy; fanciful, playful or capricious
whimsy	odd or playful behaviour or humour
whine	n. long high-pitched complaining cry, esp one made by a dog or child
whinny	 n. gentle neighing sound
whip	length of cord or strip of leather fastened to a handle, used esp for urging on an animal or for striking a person or an animal as a punishment
whirl	move quickly round and round
whirlpool	n. place in a river or the sea where there are whirling currents; circular eddy
whisker	whiskers long hair growing on a man's face
whiskered	adjs having whiskers ;
whiskey	the usual Irish and U.S. spelling of: whisky
whisky	n strong alcoholic drink distilled from malted grain (esp barley or rye)
whisper	speak softly, using the breath but without vibrating the vocal cords
whistle	clear shrill sound made by forcing breath through a small hole between partly closed lips
whit	 n. the smallest amount
white	of the very palest colour, like fresh snow, common salt or milk
whitewash	powdered lime or chalk mixed with water, used for painting
whitish	adj. tending towards white; fairly white
whittle	~ (at) sth cut thin slices or strips off (wood, etc)
who	)
whoever	the person who
whole	entire; complete
wholehearted	 adj. done, acted, given, etc., with total sincerity, enthusiasm, or commitment
wholesale	n. selling of goods to shopkeepers for resale to the public
wholesome	adj. good for one's health or well-being
wholesomeness	n.
wholly	 adv. completely; entirely
whom	 interrog pron (used as the object of a v or prep ) which person or people
whorl	one turn of a spiral
whose	interrog pron, interrog det of whom
why	for what reason or purpose
wick	length of thread in the centre of a candle, the top end of which is lit and burns as the wax melts .
wicked	(of a person or his actions) morally bad; sinful or evil
wickedly	 adv: The knife gleamed wickedly in the moonlight
wickedness	 the quality or state of being morally very bad
wicker	 n. twigs or canes woven together, esp to make baskets or furniture
wide	measuring much from side to side; not narrow
widely	to a large extent or degree
widen	v. become wider
widening	to make or become wide or wider
widespread	 extending over a wide area
widow	n. woman whose husband has died and who has not married again
width	measurement from side to side
wield	v. hold in one's handand use (a weapon, tool, etc)
wife	married woman, esp when considered in relation to her husband
wig	n. covering for the head made of real or artificial hair, worn to hide baldness, or in a lawcourt by barristers and judges, or by actors as part of a costume
wiggle	 v. (cause sth to) move from side to side with rapid short movements
wild	(of animals, birds, etc) that normally live in natural conditions; not tame or domesticated
wildcatter	(informal)
wilderness	area of wild uncultivated land; desert
wile	 An act or a means of cunning deception.
wilful	(of sth bad) done deliberately; intentional
wiliness	 n.
will	(indicating future predictions )
willful	intentional; headstrong
willfully	[ wilful: ] intent on having one's own way; headstrong or obstinate
willfulness	[ wilful: ] intent on having one's own way; headstrong or obstinate
willing	ready or eager to help
willingly	adv.
willingness	n.
willow	 n. (also `willow-tree) any of various types of tree and shrub with thin flexible branches and long narrow leaves, usu growing near water
willowy	adj. tall, lithe and slender
wilt	 v. (of a plant or flower) droop and wither
wily	 adj. crafty or cunning; full of wiles
wimple	 n. head-dress made of linen or silk folded round the head and neck, worn by women in the Middle Ages
win	be victorious in (a battle, contest, race, etc); do best
wince	v. ~ show pain, distress or embarrassment by a slight involuntary movement, esp of the muscles in the face
winch	n. machine for hoisting or pulling heavy objects by means of a rope or chain wound round a drum; windlass ;
wind	(used with a or in the plural when referring to the type of wind or its direction, etc; used with much, little, etc when referring to its strength, etc , a; much little) air moving as a result of natural forces
windbag	n. person who talks a lot but says nothing important
windfall	fruit, esp an apple, that has been blown off a tree by the wind
winding	[ wind: ] a current of air, sometimes of considerable force, moving generally horizontally from areas of high pressure to areas of low pressure
windless	 adj. without wind
windmill	mill worked by the action of wind on long projecting arms that turn on a central shaft
window	opening in the wall or roof of a building, car, etc to let in light (and often air), usu filled with glass in a frame
windy	with much wind
wine	alcoholic drink made from the fermented juice of grapes
wing	either of the pair of feathered limbs that a bird uses to fly
wink	~ close one eye very briefly, esp as a private signal to sb
winkle	 n. = periwinkle 2
winner	person, horse, etc that wins
winnow	 v. blow a current of air through (grain) in order to remove (the chaff)
winsome	adj. attractive and pleasant
winter	the last and coldest season of the year, coming between autumn and spring, ie from December to February in the Northern hemisphere
wintry	 adj. of or like winter; cold, snowy, etc
wipe	~ sth (on sth); ~ sth (down/over) clean or dry sth by rubbing its surface with a cloth, piece of paper, etc
wire	(piece or length of) metal that has been formed into a thin flexible threadlike rod
wireless	radio communications
wiry	 adj. (of a person) lean but strong
wisdom	experience and knowledge (shown in making decisions and judgements); quality of being wise
wise	having or showing good judgement
wish	~ for sth/sb have or express a desire for sth/sb (esp sth/sb that is likely to be achieved or obtained only by good fortune)
wishful	adj. having or expressing a wish
wisp	small separate bunch, bundle or twist (of sth)
wispy	adj. like a wisp or in wisps; slight or straggly
wistful	adj. full of or expressing sad or vague longing
wistfully	* `If only I had known you then,' he said wistfully. ,
wit	ability to combine words, ideas, etc so as to produce a clever type of humour
witch	n. (esp formerly) woman thought to have evil magic powers (often portrayed in fairy stories wearing a black cloak and pointed hat and flying on a broomstick); sorceress ;
witchcraft	 n. use of magic powers, esp evil ones; sorcery ;
with	in the company or presence of (sb/sth)
withdraw	 v. ~ sb/sth (from sth) pull or take sb/sth back or away
withdrawal	withdrawing or being withdrawn
withdrawn	adj. uncommunicative or unsociable
wither	~ ~ (sth) (up) (cause sth to) become dry, shrivelled or dead
withering	adj. scornful or contemptuous
withhold	 v. (fml )~ sth (from sb/sth) (fml ) refuse to give sth; keep sth back
within	after not more than (the specified period of time)
without	not having, experiencing or showing
withstand	v. (often fml ) endure (sth) without giving in, collapsing, wearing out, etc; resist
witless	adj. unintelligent or foolish; out of one's mind
witling	A person who has little understanding.
witness	(also `eye-witness) person who sees an event take place (and is therefore able to describe it to others)
witticism	n. witty remark
wittiness	n.
witting	deliberate; intentional
witty	adj. full of clever humour
wives	pl of wife
wizardry	 n. practice of magic
wizen	to become dry, shrunken, and wrinkled often as a result of aging or of failing vitality
wizened	adj. having a dried-up wrinkled skin; shrivelled
wobble	 v. ~ (about/around) (cause sth to) move from side to side unsteadily
wobbly	 adj. tending to move unsteadily from side to side
woe	great sorrow or distress
woeful	full of woe; sad
woke	 pt of wake1
woken	pp of wake1
wold	 [ weld: ] vt. to unite (pieces of metal or plastic) together, as by softening with heat and hammering or by fusion
wolf	fierce wild animal of the dog family, usu hunting in packs
woman	n. adult female human being
won	pt, pp of win
wonder	feeling of surprise mixed with admiration, bewilderment or disbelief
wonderful	adj. causing wonder; very surprising
wonderfully	adv. surprisingly
wont	 adj. ~ to do sth in the habit of doing sth; accustomed to doing sth
woo	try to obtain the support of (sb)
wood	hard fibrous substance in the trunk and branches of a tree, enclosed by the bark
woodcut	n. print made from a design, drawing, etc cut in relief on a block of wood
woodcutter	 n. person who cuts down trees as an occupation
wooden	made of wood
woodpecker	 n. bird that clings to the bark of trees and taps with its beak to find insects .
woodpile	 a pile or heap of firewood
wool	fine soft hair that forms the coats of sheep, goats and some other animals (eg the llama and alpaca)
woolen	 [ woollen: ] relating to or consisting partly or wholly of wool
woollen	adj. made wholly or partly of wool
woolly	covered with wool or wool-like hair
woozy	adj. (infml ) feeling dizzy or sick, eg as a result of drinking too much alcohol ,
word	sound or combination of sounds that expresses a meaning and forms an independent unit of the grammar or vocabulary of a language
wordsmith	especially :a skillful writer
wore	 pt of wear2
work	use of bodily or mental power in order to do or make sth (esp as contrasted with rest or play or recreation)
worker	(often in compounds ) person who works, esp one who does a particular type of work
workman	n. man who is employed to do manual or mechanical work
workmanlike	Like or befitting a skilled workman.
workmanship	The art or skill of a workman.
workpiece	n. thing worked on with a tool or machine
workshop	 n. room or building in which machines, etc are made or repaired
world	the world everything that exists; the universe
worldly	adj. of (the affairs of) the world, esp the pursuit of pleasure or material gain; not spiritual
world-wide	 adj. found in or affecting the whole world
worm	small long thin creeping animal with a soft rounded or flattened body and no backbone or limbs
worn	 pp of wear2
worried	adj. ~ ~ (that...) feeling or showing worry about sb/sth; anxious
worrier	n. person who worries a lot
worry	~ (about sb/sth) be anxious (about sb, difficulties, the future, etc)
worse	adj. ~ (than sth/doing sth) of a less excellent or desirable kind
worsen	 v. become worse
worship	reverence, respect or love for God or a god
worst	adj. 1 of the least excellent, desirable, suitable, etc kind
worth	having a certain value
worthless	without practical value or usefulness
worthwhile	 adj. important, interesting or rewarding enough to justify the time, money or effort that is spent
worthy	~ of sth/to do sth deserving sth or to do sth
would	modal v. (used with have + a past participle to describe the consequence of an imagined event have +
wound	injury caused deliberately to part of the body by cutting, shooting, etc, esp as the result of an attack
wove	 pt of weave
woven	pp of weave
wow	interj (used to express astonishment or admiration )
wraith	 n. ghostly image of a person seen shortly before or after his death; ghost
wrangle	n. ~ (about/over sth) noisy or angry argument or dispute (with sb) (about sth)
wrangler	broadly :COWBOY
wrap	~ sth (up) (in sth) cover or enclose sth (in soft or flexible material)
wrath	n. extreme anger
wreak	~ sth (on sb) carry out (revenge or vengeance) on sb; inflict sth
wreath	 n. arrangement of flowers and leaves twisted or woven into a circle and placed on a grave, etc as a mark of respect for the dead
wreathe	to form into or take the form of a wreath by intertwining or twisting together
wreck	vehicle, aeroplane, etc that has been badly damaged, esp in an accident
wreckage	 n. remains of sth that has been wrecked
wrench	~ sth off (sth); ~ sb/sth away twist or pull sb/sth violently away from sth
wrest	~ sth from sb take sth away from sb violently
wrestle	~ (with sb) fight (esp as a sport) by grappling with sb and trying to throw him to the ground
wrestler	 n. person who takes part in the sport of wrestling
wrestling	n. sport in which people wrestle
wretch	very unfortunate or miserable person
wretched	very unhappy; miserable or pitiable
wriggle	make quick, short, twisting and turning movements
wring	~ sth (out) twist and squeeze sth in order to remove liquid from it
wringing	 adj. (of clothes, etc) so wet that a lot of water can be wrung out
wrinkle	small fold or line in the skin, esp one of those on the face that are caused by age
wrinkly	adj. having or forming wrinkles
wrist	n. part of the body between the hand and the forearm; joint on which the hand moves ; .
writ	 n. formal legal written order to do or not to do sth, issued by a court of law or a person in authority
write	make letters or other symbols on a surface (usu paper), esp with a pen or pencil
writer	person who writes or has written sth
writhe	twist or roll about, esp because of great pain
writing	activity or occupation of writing
written	adj. expressed in writing, rather than in speech
wrong	~ not morally right; unjust
wrongdoer	n. person who does sth immoral or illegal
wrongdoing	 n. wrong behaviour; wrong action
wrote	pt of write
wrung	pt, pp of wring
wry	(of a person's face, features, etc) twisted into an expression of disappointment, disgust or mockery
xenophobe	a person who hates or fears foreigners or strangers
xenophobia	 n. intense dislike or fear of foreigners or strangers
xerophyte	adj. "xero'phytically adverb(ial)
xerox	process for producing photocopies without the use of wet materials
x-ray	type of short-wave electromagnetic radiation that can penetrate solids and make it possible to see into or through them *X
yacht	light sailing-boat, esp one built specifically for racing
yard	(usu unroofed) enclosed or partly enclosed space near or round a building or group of buildings, often paved
yardstick	n. ~ standard of comparison
yarn	fibres that have been spun for knitting, weaving, etc
yaw	v. turn unsteadilyoff a straight or correct course
yawn	take a deep breath with the mouth wide open, as when sleepy or bored
year	time taken by the earth to make one orbit round the sun, about 365 days
yearling	 n. animal, esp a horse, between one and two years old
yearly	 adj. adv every year or once a year
yearn	v. ~ desire strongly or with compassion or tenderness; be filled with longing
yeast	n. fungous substance used in the making of beer and wine, or to make bread rise
yell	~ (at sb/sth); ~ (out) (in/with sth) utter a loud sharp cry or cries as of pain, excitement, etc
yellow	of the colour of ripe lemons, egg yolks or gold, or of a colour similar to this .
yelp	 n. a short sharp cry
yen	n. unit of money in Japan
yeoman	(esp arch ) farmer who owns and works his land
yes	(used to answer in theaffirmative )
yesterday	adv. on the day just past; on the day before today
yet	adv. (used in questions and negative sentences and after vs expressing uncertainty, usu in final position
yield	bear, produce or provide
yielding	 adj. that can bend and give2(1); pliable rather than stiff
yoke	shaped piece of wood fixed across the necks of two animals (esp oxen) pulling a cart, plough, etc
yokel	n. simple-minded country person; bumpkin ;
yolk	 n. round yellow part in the middle of the white of an egg
yore	 n. of yore (arch or rhet ) long ago
you	 person or people being addressed ; . (used as the subject or object of a v or after a prep; also used independently and after be , be)
young	adj. not far advanced in life, growth, development, etc; of recent birth or origin
youngish	 adj. fairly young; quite young
youngster	n. child; youth; young person
your	of or belonging to the person or people being addressed
yours	of or belonging to you
yourself	(reflex ) (used when the person or people addressed cause(s) and is/are affected by an action )
youth	n. period of being young, esp the time between childhood and maturity
youthful	 adj. having qualities typical of youth; young or seeming young
zany	 adj. (infml ) amusingly ridiculous; eccentric
zeal	 n. ~ (for sth) (usu intense) energy or enthusiasm; keenness
zealot	 n. person who is extremely enthusiastic about sth, esp religion or politics; fanatic , ;
zealotry	 n. zealous attitude or behaviour
zealous	adj. full of zeal; eager
zebra	n. African wild animal of the horse family with a body covered by black (or dark brown) and white stripes
zeitgeist	n. spirit of a particular period of history as shown by the ideas, beliefs, etc of the time
zenith	point in the heavens directly above an observer
zephyr	 n. soft gentle breeze
zero	0; one less than one; nought 0
zest	~ great enjoyment or excitement; gusto
zesty	having or characterized by keen enjoyment
zigzag	 adj. turning right and left alternately at sharp angles
zinc	 n. chemical element, a bluish-white metal used in alloys and to cover iron sheets, wire, etc as a protection against rust .
zip	device for bringing together or separating two rows of metal or plastic teeth by means of a sliding tab, used for fastening clothing, baggage, etc
zippy	adj. (infml ) full of zip; lively and energetic ;
zodiac	12 .
zone	area, band or stripe that is different from its surroundings in colour, texture, appearance, etc
zoo	zoological gardens) place (eg a garden, park, etc) where living (esp wild) animals are kept for exhibition, study and breeding
zoologist	n. expert in or student of zoology
zoology	n. scientific study of the structure, form and distribution of animals
zygote	 the cell resulting from the union of an ovum and a spermatozoon
